Ancient Indian mathematical document earliest known use of zero, carbon dating reveals - ABC News (Australian Broadcasting Corporation)
Open menu ABC Home News iview TV Radio Kids Shop More Search News Home Just In Australia World Business Sport Science Arts Analysis Fact Check Programs More Email Ancient Indian mathematical document earliest known use of zero, carbon dating reveals
September 15, 2017 18:42:14
(Supplied: Bodleian Libraries) Ancient Indians were using a symbol for zero centuries earlier than historians previously thought, new research in the United Kingdom has revealed. Carbon dating performed by researchers at Oxford University on the Bakhshali manuscript, an ancient mathematical document, resulted in the unexpected discovery it originated in the third or fourth century. Inscribed on 70 pieces of birch bark, the Bakhshali manuscript contains hundreds of zeroes, and was first found by a farmer in 1881 in what is now Pakistan, before being taken to the UK. It is particularly significant because it is only in India that the symbol, conveyed as a black dot, developed into a number in its own right — the hollow circle we use today. Marcus du Sautoy, a professor of mathematics at Oxford University, said the manuscript shows Indians were using the concept of zero long before other civilisations. "[The Bakhshali manuscript] isn't theoretical text. It seems to be a practical document being used by merchants to do calculations," Professor du Sautoy said. "I'm absolutely staggered to find this is way earlier. We're talking about, having carbon dated this, this manuscript is between 200 and 400 AD." (Supplied: Bodleian Libraries)
Radiocarbon dating has now revealed it was written about 500 years earlier than scholars previously believed. "Today we take it for granted that the concept of zero is used across the globe and is a key building block of the digital world," Professor du Sautoy said. "But the creation of zero as a number in its own right, which evolved from the placeholder dot symbol found in the Bakhshali manuscript, was one of the greatest breakthroughs in the history of mathematics." Zero fundamental concept to mathematics Adam Spencer, the University of Sydney's mathematics ambassador, said zero historically has filled two roles — as a numerical symbol and as a mathematical concept. "Historically in mathematics, these are two quite different things. Zero as a symbol, how do you write 37 and 3,007 as different numbers," Mr Spencer said. "Some civilisations didn't have a symbol, they just left a space. But that gets really confusing — 307 looks like 3,007 etcetera. So different communities eventually stumbled upon the idea of a symbol for the number zero." (Supplied: Bodleian Libraries)
But the Indian use of a dot and the subsequent use of the mathematical concept of zero, or how we quantify nothing, opened up a world of mathematical discoveries. "This caused real philosophical problems for example with the Greeks, and many cultures are said to have almost thought it was heretical to talk about the concept of zero as a number," Mr Spencer said. "For something so trivial, zero was at centre of so many important parts of mathematics. People who did calculus in high school remember derivatives, the consequence of the infinitely small going to zero underpins all of calculus. "Computer code at its most basic is nothing but zeros and ones. And now as we confront quantum theories, we face really deep questions of can a space have absolutely nothing in it? Zero is everywhere." Contact David Coady
More Top Stories (photos) Connect with ABC News Got a news tip? News in your inbox Top headlines, analysis, breaking alerts Features
Emmys 2017 nominees The full list of the 2017 Emmys nominees
Carnaby's cockatoo haven
By Aaron Fernandes When a WA man dragged a hollow log on to the roof of his farmhouse and strapped it to the chimney with old fencing wire, he hoped endangered cockatoos would come home to roost.
Shot by the same bullet that killed his friend in slum attack
By Declan Cooley Residents of Nigeria's Otodo Gbame fled for their lives when their shanty town was set ablaze to make way for redevelopment.
Syrian football team providing hope The Socceroos will go into their two-match World-Cup playoff against Syria next month — a team providing a beacon of hope for a nation burdened by civil war. Top Stories Just In Most Popular Analysis & Opinion Site Map Sections ABC News Just In Australia World Business Entertainment Sport Analysis & Opinion Weather Topics Archive Corrections & Clarifications Local Weather Sydney Weather Melbourne Weather Adelaide Weather Brisbane Weather Perth Weather Hobart Weather Darwin Weather Canberra Weather Local News Sydney News Melbourne News Adelaide News Brisbane News Perth News Hobart News Darwin News Canberra News Media Video Audio Photos Subscribe Podcasts RSS Feeds NewsMail Connect Upload Contact Us Suggest a Contributor Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us