Mathematics - College of Science and Engineering - Seattle University
About Admissions Academics Student Life Jesuit Tradition Athletics Alumni Give Students Families Faculty & Staff Library Directories Campus Map Visit SU Email Canvas MySU SU Online About Admissions Academics Student Life Jesuit Tradition Athletics Alumni Give Students Families Faculty & Staff Library Directories Campus Map Visit SU Email Canvas MySU SU Online SU Home SU Home College of Science and Engineering Mathematics Mathematics About us / Find us About us / Find us Emeriti Faculty research Faculty research Classroom Technology Classroom Technology Learning Outcomes Learning Outcomes Math Placement Math Placement Bachelor of Science in Mathematics with Specialization Bachelor of Science, Major in Mathematics Bachelor of Arts, Major in Mathematics Undergraduate Research Student Awards Links Alumni Connections Math Lab Math Club SUMmER 2015 Results SUMmER 2016 Results SUMmER 2017 Results Math colloquium SMART Fridays MATH+ART event PNW MAA section meeting, 2018 Cascade Topology Seminar, 2016 Mathematics Welcome to our department! News Dr. Steven Klee named a recipient of the 2017 Henry L. Alder Award! Read more about it here!   More on Mathematics at Seattle University Mathematics is an essential tool in the modern world, as well as a fascinating and beautiful subject in its own right. In a mathematics major, students learn increasingly sophisticated tools and techniques for solving mathematical problems arising in fields such as natural sciences, engineering, economics, and statistics. They also understand the theoretical aspects of these techniques, study abstract mathematical structures, and develop the ability to read and write rigorous proofs of mathematical statements. Our students enjoy small class size, personalized attention, close interaction with faculty, and the use of technology in the classroom. The mathematics department offers students several different degrees to choose from based on their interests within mathematics and their professional goals. These include a BA degree, a BS degree designed for students intending to use their degree in a professional career, and a BSM degree that provides the fullest preparation for graduate school in mathematics or actuarial science. A major in mathematics is commonly paired with a major in another field in science, engineering, business, or the humanities, resulting in a very strong degree. All majors participate in a year-long capstone experience that culminates in oral and written presentations. We also offer the opportunity for some students to engage in research projects with faculty members. Recent projects have included research in mathematical models of water waves, number theory, graph theory, inverse theory, and random matrices. A mathematics degree opens up careers in a variety of industries including finance, insurance, software engineering, and the sciences. In addition, some of our mathematics majors decide to pursue careers in teaching and others continue their education through graduate programs in mathematics, finance, statistics, or another disciplines. We are proud to number among our majors recipients of the prestigious Goldwater Scholarship, National Security Agency Internship, and NASA Summer Internship.   Seattle WA 98122 Email SU Online Library Canvas Careers Campus Map MySU Contact SU Give Follow Us © Seattle University