Mathematics | Quanta Magazine
What's up in Mathematics Mathematicians Measure Infinities and Find They’re Equal Kevin Hartnett Two mathematicians have proved that two different infinities are equal in size, settling a long-standing question. Their proof rests on a surprising link between the sizes of infinities and the complexity of mathematical theories. Why Math Is the Best Way to Make Sense of the World Ariel Bleicher To tell truth from fiction, start with quantitative thinking, argues the mathematician Rebecca Goldin. The Math That Promises to Make the World Brighter Kevin Hartnett The color of LED lights is controlled by a clumsy process. A new mathematical discovery may make it easier for us to get the hues we want.
Mathematicians Tame Rogue Waves, Lighting Up Future of LEDs Kevin Hartnett The mathematician Svitlana Mayboroda and collaborators have figured out how to predict the behavior of electrons — a mathematical discovery that could have immediate practical effects.
Follow Quanta Most Read in Mathematics This Data is Current Loading... This Data is Current Loading... This Data is Current Loading... This Data is Current Loading... This Data is Current Loading... This Data is Current Loading... Symmetry, Algebra and the Monster Patrick Honner To begin to understand what mathematicians and physicists see in the abstract structures of symmetries, let’s start with a familiar shape. Why Mathematicians Like to Classify Things Kevin Hartnett It’s “a definitive study for all time, like writing the final book,” says one researcher who’s mapping out new classes of geometric structures. New Shapes Solve Infinite Pool-Table Problem Kevin Hartnett Two “rare jewels” have illuminated a mysterious multidimensional object that connects a huge variety of mathematical work. The Beautiful Mathematical Explorations of Maryam Mirzakhani Moira Chas After her untimely death, Maryam Mirzakhani’s life is best remembered through her work. Kaisa Matomäki Dreams of Primes Kevin Hartnett Kaisa Matomäki has proved that properties of prime numbers over long intervals hold over short intervals as well. The techniques she uses have transformed the study of these elusive numbers. Previous 1 2 3 4 ... 12 Next The Quanta Newsletter Get highlights of the most important news delivered to your email inbox About Quanta About Quanta Archive Archive Contact Us Contact Us Terms & Conditions Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Privacy Policy Simons Foundation Simons Foundation