Department of Mathematics
Department of Mathematics Website Toggle navigation
Our Department
Location and Building Information
Contact Us
Affiliated Programs
Department History
Current Grants
Display Case
Departmental Pages
Current Faculty
Graduate Faculty
Emeritus Faculty
Research Areas
Graduate Students
Staff
Directory
Faculty Areas of Research
Weekly Seminars and Colloquia
Centers and Institutes
Undergraduate Research Assistantships
Regular Sections
Honors Sections
Individual Studies and 500-level Courses
Common Finals
Course Websites
Undergraduate Special Topics
General Information
Course Placement
Review for Course or Placement
Testing Process
Preparing For Your Exam
Placement Exams FAQ
Get My Placement Scores
Retesting or Proctored Testing
AP & Transfer Credits
Math Transfer Credit Approval Form
For UA Advisors
Contact the Placement Office
Requirements
Procedure
Which Degree?
Trajectories
MA/MS Requirements
PhD Requirements
PhD Minor Requirements
PhD Qualifying Exams
Research Opportunities
Special Topics
RTGs
Recent Grads
Workshops & Conferences
Contact the Graduate Program
Alumni Early Career Profiles
Declaring a Math Major/Minor
Contact Us
Math Center services
Honors
Advising Handouts
Graduate Programs
Career Assistance
Additional Resources
Undergraduate Program Requirements
Undergraduate Teaching Assistants
Potential Research Projects
Participants
Contact the URA Program
University-Level Opportunities
External Opportunities
Activities and Events
Scholarships and Awards
Undergraduate Tutoring
Mathematical Science Cafés
Bartlett Memorial Lecture
Upcoming Outreach Events
Programs
Conferences
Subscribe
Scholarships and Awards
Give
Upcoming Events
Past Events
Outreach Events
Undergraduate Events
Search Events
Weekly Seminars and Colloquia
Departmental Pages
Need Help?
Subscribe!
Give!
UA-TRIPODS The National Science Foundation (NSF) will be providing $17.7 million in funding for 12 Transdisciplinary Research in Principles of Data Science (TRIPODS) projects. The University of Arizona is proud to be one of the recipients for this NSF initiative. STUDENT THINKING ENRICHMENT THROUGH MATHEMATICS MENTORS (STEMM) The Center for Recruitment and Retention of Mathematics Teachers just received a $130,883 grant from the Corporation for National and Community Service and Arizona's Governor's Office for Youth, Faith, and Family. The AmeriCorps grant called STEMM will place 40 UA students in secondary mathematics classrooms to support teachers' student-centered instruction.   ICMA VI, OCTOBER 20-22, 2017 Continuing series of International Conferences on Mathematical Modeling and Analysis of Populations in Biological Systems (ICMA), the 6th (ICMA-VI) will be held at the University of Arizona, hosted by the Department of Mathematics and the Interdisciplinary Program in Applied Mathematics.    UA TO HOST NATIONAL CONFERENCE ON STEM AND HISPANICS The Southwest Conference on Transforming STEM Education in Hispanic-Serving Institutions will be held November 18-20, 2017. The University of Arizona is one of only four institutions selected by the National Science Foundation for this award. CALCULUS KIDS MAKE THE GRADE Six high-achieving high school students are learning vector calculus at the UA thanks to a unique partnership among the UA, the Tucson Unified School District, and the Thomas R. Brown Foundation.   (Image: Stacy Pigott/UANews)   CONGRATULATIONS DAVE GLICKENSTEIN! Dr. Glickenstein has been selected for the newest cohort of the UA Academic Leadership Institute (ALI), which includes 24 of the UA's future campus leaders. ALI gives current and emerging campus leaders opportunities to participate in discussions and workshops to help develop their leadership skills.  Dr. Glickenstein has been selected for the newest cohort of the UA Academic Leadership Institute (ALI), which includes 24 of the UA's future campus leaders. ALI gives current and emerging campus leaders opportunities to participate in discussions and workshops to help develop their leadership skills.  Research Team Develops New Data Corruption and Retention Technology Mohamad Moussa and Professor Marek Rychlik are developing an improved method for mitigating data loss due to faults in the storage medium (disk).   (Image: Taylor Hudson/Tech Launch Arizona) CONGRATULATIONS, TIEP! The Arizona Board of Regents has confirmed the appoinment of Pham Huu Tiep as a Regents' Professor. The title of Regents' Professor is reserved for faculty members whose exceptional achievements merit national and international distinction, and is conferred on no more than 3% of the total number of the University's tenured and tenure track faculty members. Please join us in extending our congratulatory wishes to Tiep on this well-deserved and prestigious honor! Want to Help? The University of Arizona Department of Mathematics appreciates any donations to support its activities. Donors can donate to the department or direct their gifts to specific efforts by identifying a particular program, activity or existing endowment. Welcome! Upcoming Events Homoclinic bifurcations in models of vegetation patterns Tuesday, September 19, 2017,
, Department of Mathematics, University of Arizona TRIPODS Seminar Wednesday, September 20, 2017,
, National Optical Astronomy Observatory Fluctuations of the free energy of spherical Sherrington-Kirkpatrick model Wednesday, September 20, 2017,
, University of Michigan Department of Mathematics, The University of Arizona 617 N. Santa Rita Ave. P.O. Box 210089 Tucson, AZ 85721-0089 USA Voice: (520) 621-6892 Fax: (520) 621-8322 Contact Us © Copyright 2017 Arizona Board of Regents All rights reserved