Mathematics | Top Universities
You are here Home Home
>
Mathematics Mathematics Get expert test prep advice with QS-LEAP, the world's first social and free test-prep platform. Find us Find us How are you feeling today? * How are you feeling today? * * Use at least 6 characters and one numeral * X X X Mathematics The rankings are based upon academic reputation, employer reputation and research impact ( click here
to read the full methodology). Use the interactive table below to filter the rankings by location, and click on individual universities for more information. Registered users will also be able to use the site’s
Compare
function to see facts and statistics about multiple universities side-by-side. When it comes to number-crunching, it’s hard to look past the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT)
which has soared up the rankings to overtake
Harvard University
as the best university for studying mathematics in the world. 12 of this year’s top 20 are based in the US but that doesn’t mean you have to move to America to get a good degree in maths. The UK, Switzerland, Singapore, Canada, Japan and China are all also represented in the top 20. 12 of this year’s top 20 are based in the US but that doesn’t mean you have to move to America to get a good degree in maths. The UK, Switzerland, Singapore, Canada, Japan and China are all also represented in the top 20. Interested in other courses besides Mathematics? The QS World University Rankings by Subject 2017 covers 46 different subjects.
Click here
to see the full list. In partnership with: 109
shares In partnership with: X X University Rankings Rankings Indicators Read more about
|
RANK COUNTRY GUIDE X X X X X X Quick Links
Methodology
Digital Supplement
Want more detail? Rankings Overview QS World University Rankings QS World University Rankings by Subject QS Graduate Employability Rankings QS University Rankings by Region QS Best Student Cities QS Top 50 Under 50 QS System Strength Rankings QS Stars Rating System Related articles University search Subject guides Study destination guides Scholarship advice Events overview QS World Grad School Tour QS World University Tour QS World MBA Tour QS TopMBA Connect 1-2-1 Free test preparation (QS-LEAP) Choosing a university Student finance Preparing to study abroad QS student guides University profiles Admissions advice QS Scholarships Careers advice Community overview Q&A forum Blog University news Videos QS Quacquarelli Symonds Limited 1994 - 2017. All rights reserved. admissions, jobs and student life Main menu Rankings Rankings overview QS World University Rankings QS World University Rankings by Subject QS Graduate Employability Rankings QS University Rankings by Region QS Best Student Cities QS Top 50 Under 50 QS System Strength Rankings QS Stars Rating System Related articles Discover University search Subject guides Study destination guides Scholarship advice Events Events overview QS World Grad School Tour QS World University Tour QS MBA Events Prepare Free test preparation (QS-LEAP) Choosing a university Student finance Preparing to study abroad QS student guides Apply University profiles Admissions advice QS Scholarships Careers Careers advice Community Community overview Q&A forum Blog University news Videos