School of Mathematics |
Go to the U of M home page One Stop College of Science and Engineering CSE Home CSE Directory Give to CSE Student Dashboard Condensed Directory Administration Faculty Staff Postdocs, Visitors, Affiliated Faculty Instructional Staff Graduate Students Emeritus Faculty CSE-IT Staff In Memoriam Contact Vincent Hall Math Library Positions Available IT Knowledge & Help Make a Gift Major/Minor Programs Actuarial Studies Past Senior Honors Theses Requirements Undergraduate Honors Scholarships Courses Exam Information Tutoring Undergraduate Research Undergraduate Internships Student Groups and Competitions Undergraduate News Admission Requirements PhD Programs Master's Programs Decisions Master of Financial Math Graduate Math Minors Courses Financial Assistance/Benefits Student Fellowships & Awards PhD Alumni MS Alumni Student Groups and Competitions MCFAM MathCEP MCIM Faculty Research Minnesota Journal of Undergraduate Mathematics (MJUM) Programs News Newsletters Undergraduate News Seminars Events Past Events Photo Gallery University Calendar Prof. Mitchell Luskin Named IPAM Simons Participant Professor Mitchell Luskin was named the first IPAM
Simons Participant
at the Institute for Pure & Applied Mathematics in the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) during their program “Complex High-dimensional Energy Landscapes” which began on September 11, 2017.  A conference on
Multiscale Theory and Computation
in honor of Prof. Luskin's 65th birthday is being held here at the University of Minnesota on September 23-25, 2017 Tyler Maunu Awarded Doctoral Dissertation Fellowship Tyler Maunu has been awarded a University of Minnesota Doctoral Dissertation Fellowship for 2017-18. Tyler's research interests lie in statistics, machine learning, computer vision, and non-convex optimization, and his thesis advisor is Gilad Lerman. The Doctoral Dissertation Fellowship (DDF) gives the University's most accomplished PhD candidates an opportunity to devote full-time effort to an outstanding research project by providing time to finalize and write a dissertation during the fellowship year. Tyler Maunu has been awarded a University of Minnesota Doctoral Dissertation Fellowship for 2017-18. Tyler's research interests lie in statistics, machine learning, computer vision, and non-convex optimization, and his thesis advisor is Gilad Lerman. The Doctoral Dissertation Fellowship (DDF) gives the University's most accomplished PhD candidates an opportunity to devote full-time effort to an outstanding research project by providing time to finalize and write a dissertation during the fellowship year. Han Yong Wunrow Receives Fulbright Award Senior and math major, Han Yong Wunrow, has received a Fulbright Scholarship to teach English in Korea. Born in Korea and adopted at an early age, Wunrow has maintained ties to Korean culture by participating in traditional Samulnori drumming and studying abroad at Pohang University of Science and Engineering. At the University of Minnesota, he is active in several groups in the College of Science and Engineering and in Mathematics. A successful participant mathematical modeling competitions, Wunrow plans to complete graduate study in Health Metrics after his year in Korea. Senior and math major, Han Yong Wunrow, has received a Fulbright Scholarship to teach English in Korea. Born in Korea and adopted at an early age, Wunrow has maintained ties to Korean culture by participating in traditional Samulnori drumming and studying abroad at Pohang University of Science and Engineering. At the University of Minnesota, he is active in several groups in the College of Science and Engineering and in Mathematics. A successful participant mathematical modeling competitions, Wunrow plans to complete graduate study in Health Metrics after his year in Korea. Congratulations Newly Promoted Faculty  - research Interests: Probability theory and discrete harmonic analysis  - research Interests: Algebraic topology and its applications     - research interests: Algebraic topology, K-theory
Mathematics at the University of Minnesota Award Winning Programs, Research, and Faculty Yield Award Winning Students The mission of the School of Mathematics is to cover the full range of research, education and service throughout mathematics and its applications. Our graduates - bachelors, Masters, and Doctorates - pursue a wide variety of careers within education, industry, and government. We provide mathematics instruction to students throughout the University in a broad range of academic programs, including physical and biological sciences, engineering, business, medicine, social sciences, and many other disciplines. Tradition of Excellence School of Mathematics Events School of Mathematics Events Other Math Events IMA Events CSE Events Giving Opportunities Course Information Special Events For Students, Faculty, and Staff One Stop 2017