Department of Mathematical Sciences | Stevens Institute of Technology
Search form Stevens Entrepreneurship Close Department of Mathematical Sciences Mathematical Sciences Additional Navigation Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Research Faculty & Staff Department of Mathematical Sciences Mathematics plays a central role in academic life at Stevens. It is both a fascinating subject worth exploring in its own right and indispensable to engineering and the sciences. Other research strengths of the department include stochastic optimization, applied probability theory, and differential equations. Majors Minor Graduate Programs Stevens Math Olympiad 2017 Expand Lightbox Expand Lightbox Expand Lightbox Expand Lightbox Expand Lightbox Expand Lightbox Program Highlight The Stevens Calculus System At Stevens, we do calculus differently. Students learn not only through lectures, but through team problem-solving sessions, self-study projects, and innovative teaching materials. Small class sizes mean that professors are always available for one-on-one meetings, and half-semester courses allow us to design flexible schedules that cater to individual students' needs. Departmental Research As its areas of emphasis the Stevens Department of Mathematics is committed to stochastic systems and optimization as well as algebraic cryptography. Risk and Decision-Making Research in stochastic optimization models with stochastic dominance constraints and risk functions, including new optimization models constraining risk. Algebraic Cryptography The Algebraic Cryptography Center investigates new techniques from computational algebra to practical problems in cryptography and cryptanalysis. Calculus Learning Platform Gradarius is a novel learning platform developed by Stevens mathematicians to help students master calculus concepts for deeper understanding. Group Theory Cutting-edge research in computational, combinatorial, and geometric group theory. A weekly seminar, featuring scholars from around the world. Open to the public… Faculty Spotlight Alexei Miasnikov, Ph.D. Nicholas Toukian, Ph.D. Darinka Dentcheva, Ph.D. Robert Gilman, Ph.D. Mathematical Sciences News You seldom hear the words "fun" and "math" in the same sentence. But fun is the most common way New Jersey students describe the Stevens Math Olympiad.
Earlier this summer, 350… Gradarius is changing the way college students learn calculus—and may very well change the way calculus is taught in higher education.
Gradarius is the world’s first learning… In 1995 Thomas Pidduck, M.D., a medical intern at George Washington University Medical Center in Washington, D.C., was part of the medical team looking after the retired U.S. senator… Stevens is becoming a global thought leader in group theory - thanks, in part, to Professor Robert Gilman.
Gilman teaches in the Stevens Institute of Technology’s Department… More than 300 middle and high school students gathered at the Stevens Institute of Technology campus in Hoboken June 11 to compete in the first Stevens Math Olympiad.
Participants… Dr. Alexei Miasnikov, director of the Department of Mathematical Sciences and distinguished professor at Stevens Institute of Technology has been awarded the highly renowned Malcev… The Mathematical Sciences Research Institute (MSRI) in Berkeley, California has awarded Professor Robert Gilman a Research Membership for its program in Geometric Group Theory… How do we learn? It's a simple, yet vexing, question — and one that remains largely unanswered.A psychologist might say we accumulate experiences, changing our behavior as we go… Mathematical Sciences Events 3 Nov 2017 9:00AM – 5:00PM Hosted by the Mathematical Sciences Department Contact Us Department of Mathematical Sciences
Alexei
Miasnikov
Distinguished Professor, Department Director
Patrick
Miller
Teaching Associate Professor, Deputy Director An inclusive college campus just minutes from New York City with an incredible view and exceptional access to opportunity my An inclusive college campus just minutes from New York City with an incredible view and exceptional access to opportunity An inclusive college campus just minutes from New York City with an incredible view and exceptional access to opportunity Stevens Institute of Technology Expand Expand Expand Expand Expand Search form