Mathematics | Undergraduate Study
Study at Cambridge Fees and funding Frequently asked
questions About the University Research at Cambridge
Undergraduate Study
Home Why Cambridge overview Cambridge explained Student life overview The Cambridge area Accommodation Sport Societies Students' Unions Support overview College welfare Disabled students overview Disabled student applications Care leaver support overview Care leaver applications Events for care leavers Realise student snapshots Travel Fund Mature students overview Mature student applications Second undergraduate degrees Counselling Student parents Careers Courses overview About our courses How will I be taught? Facilities and resources Subjects Colleges overview What is a College? Choosing a College College open days College contacts Area links overview East Midlands overview Derby Derbyshire Leicester City Leicestershire Lincolnshire Northamptonshire Nottinghamshire Rutland East of England overview Bedfordshire Cambridgeshire Essex Hertfordshire Luton Norfolk Peterborough Southend-on-Sea Suffolk Thurrock Greater London overview Barking and Dagenham Barnet Bexley Brent Bromley Camden City of London City of Westminster Croydon Ealing Enfield Greenwich Hackney Hammersmith and Fulham Haringey Harrow Havering Hillingdon Hounslow Islington Kensington and Chelsea Kingston Lambeth Lewisham Merton Newham Redbridge Richmond Southwark Sutton Tower Hamlets Waltham Forest Wandsworth North East overview Darlington Durham Gateshead Hartlepool Middlesbrough Newcastle North Tyneside Northumberland Redcar and Cleveland South Tyneside Stockton-on-Tees Sunderland North West overview Blackburn with Darwen Blackpool Bolton Bury Cheshire Crewe Cumbria Halton Knowsley Lancashire Liverpool Manchester Oldham Rochdale Salford Sefton St Helens Stockport Tameside Telford and Wrekin Trafford Warrington Wigan Wirral Northern Ireland Scotland South East overview Bracknell Forest Hampshire Kent Maidenhead Medway Milton Keynes Oxfordshire Portsmouth Slough Southampton Surrey Sussex Windsor Buckinghamshire Reading West Berkshire Wokingham South West overview Bath and North East Somerset Bournemouth Bristol Cornwall Devon Dorset Gloucestershire North Somerset Plymouth Poole Somerset South Gloucestershire Swindon Torbay Wiltshire Wales overview North Wales and Ceredigion South Wales and Powys West Midlands overview Birmingham Coventry Dudley Herefordshire Sandwell Shropshire Solihull Staffordshire Stoke Walsall Warwickshire Wolverhampton Worcestershire Yorkshire and Humber overview Barnsley Bradford Calderdale Doncaster East Yorkshire Huddersfield and Kirklees Kingston-upon-Hull Leeds North East Lincolnshire North Lincolnshire North Yorkshire Rotherham Sheffield Wakefield York Finance overview Tuition fees Living costs Financial support overview Government financial support Cambridge financial support Students from England Students from Scotland Students from Wales Students from Northern Ireland Students from the EU Music awards overview Choral awards overview Which Colleges have Choral Awards? Are there any restrictions? Can I join when I arrive at Cambridge? How do I apply? Pooled applicants What will happen at the audition? Aural tests for choral award auditions Information from the Colleges How can I find out more? Cambridge Choral Experience Instrumental awards overview What instruments are eligible? What happens at the audition? How do I apply? Organ scholarships overview Which Colleges have Organ Scholars? What vacancies are there for entry in 2018 and 2019? Are there any restrictions? When do the auditions and interviews take place? What will happen at the audition? How do I apply? Information from the Colleges Applying overview What are we looking for? Dates and deadlines Entrance requirements overview Course requirements Age requirement English language requirements STEP and Further Mathematics Students at other UK universities UCAS application overview Making an open application Supplementary Application Questionnaire (SAQ) overview Completing the SAQ SAQ FAQ Cambridge Online Preliminary Application (COPA) overview Completing the COPA COPA sections Submitting the COPA COPA fees COPA checklist COPA FAQ COPA Terms and Conditions Transcripts Admission assessments overview Pre-interview assessments At-interview assessments Submitted work Interviews overview Why do we interview? What do interviews involve? How should I prepare? Decisions overview Feedback on admissions decisions Extenuating circumstances form Admissions Policy overview International Undergraduate Admissions Contextual data Criminal convictions Appeals and Complaints International overview Why Cambridge? International applications Application timetable Overseas interviews International entrance requirements EU and International qualifications English language requirements International fees and costs International financial support Tuition fee status Visas and immigration International events Visiting students Events overview Events listing How We Use Participant Data Open Days overview Cambridge Open Days overview Open Days FAQ College open days Department open days Student Conferences Sutton Trust Summer Schools overview How do I apply? Eligibility criteria Selection Summer Schools programme Important dates Frequently Asked Questions Experience Cambridge Subject Masterclasses overview Subject Masterclasses FAQ The Subject Matters Children in care events Higher education fairs International events Events for teachers overview Regional Teachers' Roadshow Travel advice Find out more overview 60 Second Impressions Publications Order a Prospectus Widening participation overview Insight Realise project Sutton Scholars HE+ Sutton Trust Summer Schools Experience Cambridge Teachers and parents overview Oxford and Cambridge: the similarities and differences Written assessment Helping students prepare School/college reference Area links Events for teachers Application statistics FAQ Contact us Mathematics
(including Mathematics with Physics)   Container Overview Mathematics at Cambridge The Cambridge Mathematics course is often considered to be the most demanding undergraduate Mathematics course available in Britain and, correspondingly, one of the most rewarding. Two other aspects of the course that our students greatly appreciate are its flexibility and the breadth of subjects offered. The amount of choice increases each year and after Year 1 the workload isn’t fixed so you can choose the number of options you study to suit your own work pattern. Some students take as many options as they can; others take fewer and study them very thoroughly. Our Faculty Since Sir Isaac Newton was Lucasian Professor (1669-96), mathematics teaching and research here have been enhanced by a string of brilliant mathematicians, including six Fields Medallists and even Nobel Prize winners. Most current Faculty members are leading international authorities on their subject. Additional course costs Changing course Over the years, mathematicians have changed successfully to nearly every other subject taught at Cambridge. However, it's not advisable to apply for Mathematics intending to transfer to a subject other than Physics. Careers A Cambridge Mathematics degree is versatile and very marketable. The demand for our mathematicians is high in business, commerce and industry, as well as the academic world. Around 45% of our students go on to further study, while others follow a wide variety of careers. Recent graduates include a metrologist, sports statistician, journalist, and an avionics, radar and communications engineer, as well as teachers, actuaries, accountants, IT specialists, financiers and consultants. Course Outline Course outline In Year 1, you typically have 12 lectures and two supervisions each week. In the following years, the greater choice and flexibility means that the pattern of lectures and supervisions is more irregular, but the average load is roughly the same. You sit four written examination papers each year. In addition, there are optional computer projects in Years 2 and 3. In the fourth year, each course is examined individually, and you have the option of submitting an essay on a current research topic. Year 1 (Part IA) In the first year, there are two options to choose from: Pure and Applied Mathematics, for students intending to continue with Mathematics Mathematics with Physics, for students who may want to study Physics after the first year Part IA introduces you to the fundamentals of higher mathematics, including: the study of algebraic systems (such as groups) analysis of calculus probability mathematical methods (such as vector calculus) Newtonian dynamics and special relativity You take eight subjects. Those taking Mathematics with Physics replace two Mathematics subjects with Part IA Physics from Natural Sciences, covering, for example, kinetic theory, Fourier analysis, and electromagnetism. Year 2 (Part IB) In Part IB, you choose from around 16 options available. In most, the topics of the first year are studied in much greater depth, but some new topics are offered, for example: geometry electromagnetism, quantum mechanics and fluid dynamics applicable mathematics, which includes statistics and optimisation (a rigorous treatment of topics from decision mathematics) numerical analysis There are also optional computational projects (assessed by means of reports and programs submitted before the summer examinations), using numerical or algebraic techniques to investigate mathematical problems. Year 3 (Part II) Year 3 gives you the opportunity to explore your mathematical interests in detail. There is a very wide choice, including papers on, for example: cryptography algebraic topology number theory cosmology general relativity stochastic financial models waves automata and formal languages mathematical biology There are also optional computational projects. Year 4 (Part III, optional integrated Masters) Entry Requirements Typical offers require Course requirements Admission assessment Assessment format There is no common format written assessment for Mathematics (applicants will continue to sit STEP alongside A Levels) – Colleges will assess aptitude, knowledge base and potential through short tasks at the time of interview. You do not need to register or be registered in advance for the assessment at interview – the Colleges provide details of arrangements in the letters inviting applicants to interview. Please note that your performance in the assessment at interview will not be considered in isolation, but will be taken into account alongside the other elements of your application. For Mathematics candidates interviewed overseas, a written Maths assessment will be administered by the overseas interviewing team which will then be made available to the Cambridge College along with the overseas interview report. Submitted work Applicants are not typically asked to submit examples of written work. Some may be asked by their College to do some reading in advance of their interview, but if this is required the College will provide full details in the letter inviting the student to interview. Resources Faculty of Mathematics Explore Mathematics in more detail on the faculty website. Course Information A detailed guide to the Mathematics degree. Maths study skills A guide to the study skills that will help you study Mathematics at Cambridge, and also give you a flavour of the teaching styles here. Isaac Newton Institute Isaac Newton Institute for Mathematical Sciences. NRICH Mathematics Free online mathematics resources designed to help students develop mathematical reasoning and problem-solving skills Plus Magazine An online magazine opening a door to the world of maths. Millennium Mathematics Project Maths education and outreach initiative. STEP Guidance Information about the STEP examination which applicants to study Maths at Cambridge are required to take. STEP Support Programme A free series of online modules designed to help potential university applicants develop their advanced problem-solving skills and prepare for the STEP exams. Application Information A detailed guide to applying to study Mathematics at Cambridge. Underground Mathematics Online mathematics resources for A Level students and teachers. KIS Unistats Information Contextual Information From September 2012, every undergraduate course of more than one year's duration will have a Key Information Set (KIS). The KIS allows you to compare 17 pieces of information about individual courses at different higher education institutions. However, please note that superficially similar courses often have very different structures and objectives, and that the teaching, support and learning environment that best suits you can only be determined by identifying your own interests, needs, expectations and goals, and comparing them with detailed institution- and course-specific information. We recommend that you look thoroughly at the course and University information contained on these webpages and consider coming to visit us on an Open Day, rather than relying solely on statistical comparison. You may find the following notes helpful when considering information presented by the KIS. The KIS relies on superficially similar courses being coded in the same way. Whilst this works on one level, it leads to some anomalies. For example, Music courses and Music Technology courses can have exactly the same code despite being very different programmes with quite distinct educational and career outcomes. Any course which combines several disciplines (as many courses at Cambridge do) tends to be compared nationally with courses in just one of those disciplines, and in such cases a KIS comparison may not be an accurate or fair reflection of the reality of either. For example, you may find that when considering a degree which embraces a range of disciplines such as biology, physics, chemistry and geology (for instance, Natural Sciences at Cambridge), the comparison provided is with courses at other institutions that primarily focus on just one (or a smaller combination) of those subjects. Whilst the KIS makes reference to some broad types of financial support offered by institutions, it cannot compare packages offered by different institutions. Different students have different circumstances and requirements, and you should weigh up what matters to you most: level of fee; fee waivers; means-tested support such as bursaries; non-means-tested support such as academic scholarships and study grants; and living costs such as accommodation, travel. The KIS provides a typical cost of private (ie non-university) accommodation. This is very difficult to estimate as prices and properties vary. University accommodation can be substantially cheaper, and if you are likely to live in College for much or all of the duration of your course (as is the case at Cambridge), then the cost of private accommodation will be of less or no relevance for you. The KIS also provides the typical annual cost of university accommodation and the number of beds available. Note that since most universities offer a range of residential accommodation, you should check with institutions about the likelihood of securing a room at a price that suits your budget. Knowing the number of beds available is not necessarily useful: it may be much more important to find out if all students are guaranteed accommodation. Time in lectures, seminars and similar can vary enormously by institution depending on the structure of the course, and the quality of such contact time should be the primary consideration. Whilst starting salaries can be a useful measure, they do not give any sense of career trajectory or take account of the voluntary/low paid work that many graduates undertake initially in order to gain valuable experience necessary/advantageous for later career progression. The above list is not exhaustive and there may be other important factors that are relevant to the choices that you are making, but we hope that this will be a useful starting point to help you delve deeper than the face value of the KIS data. Fact File Available at all Colleges except Wolfson. Most Colleges don't encourage deferred entry. Course Film Cambridge Admissions Office About this site Our website Cookies Privacy policy How we use participant data Contact us Information for Teachers and Parents International students Disabled students Mature students   Social share © 2017 University of Cambridge Study at Cambridge About the University Research at Cambridge