UT Mathematics
The University of Texas at Austin Giving News Events Outreach Directory About Us Directions Directions Contact Us Contact Us Directory Directory Employment Faculty Faculty Lecturer Lecturer Grading Jobs Grading Jobs Learning Assistants Learning Assistants Teaching Assistants Teaching Assistants Student clubs Actuarial Sci Club Actuarial Sci Club Math Club Math Club Sat Morning Math Sat Morning Math AWM Student Chapter AWM Student Chapter Newsletters Newsletters People Faculty Faculty Courtesy Appts Courtesy Appts Emeritus Faculty Emeritus Faculty Staff Staff Grad Students Grad Students In Memoriam In Memoriam Academics Undergraduate Undergraduate Graduate Graduate Actuarial Science Actuarial Science UTeach UTeach Dana Center Dana Center Courses Course Descriptions Course Descriptions Course Syllabi Course Syllabi Syllabi/CV Search Syllabi/CV Search Course Schedule Course Schedule Textbook Listing Textbook Listing Inquiry Based Learning Inquiry Based Learning Outreach Saturday Math Group Saturday Math Group Math Club Math Club Teachers Circle Teachers Circle Research Research Interests Research Interests Seminars Seminars RTGs RTGs UT-Portugal CoLab UT-Portugal CoLab Women in Math Women in Math Online Videos Online Videos Interdisciplinarity Simons Math+X Simons Math+X Math+Neuro Math+Neuro Services Administration Administration Business Forms Business Forms Computing FAQ FAQ Weblogs Weblogs Ssh to UT Math Ssh to UT Math Howtos Howtos Floor Maps The 8th Level The 8th Level The 9th Level The 9th Level The 10th Level The 10th Level The 11th Level The 11th Level The 12th Level The 12th Level The 13th Level The 13th Level RLM Recyling RLM Recyling Webmail Webmail SquirrelMail SquirrelMail Alumni & Friends Support UT Math Support UT Math Alumnae & Alumni Alumnae & Alumni News & Events Seminar Calendar Seminar Calendar Conferences Conferences Awards Awards Photo Gallery Photo Gallery Calendars Calendars Newsletters Newsletters Quick Links Quest Quest Bevoware Bevoware Canvas Canvas UT Direct UT Direct MathSciNet MathSciNet MP_arc MP_arc CCRT CCRT Seminars & Announcements Sunday Sep 17 2017 Sunday Sep 17 2017 09/17
Upcoming Conferences
Kinetic equations play vital roles in the modeling of physical systems ranging from gas dynamics,
plasmas, semiconductor devices to biological and social sciences. The study of kinetic equations
brings out rich mathematics and calls for special techniques from analysis, numerical analysis and
scientific computing.
The aim of this conference is to bring together junior and senior experts in
all aspects of kinetic equations and provide the state of the art and most recent developments in
the field.
The weekend-long TGTC conference at the Mathematics Department of UT Austin features leading
researchers in low-dimensional topology, hyperbolic geometry, geometric group theory, gauge theory
and symplectic topology.
Latest News The work of Alexis Vasseur and Cheng Yu will be the topic of a presentation at the Seminaire
Bourbaki in IHP, Paris June 7, 2017 James Carter Smith won the Marjorie Morales Award for Excellence in Mathematics Research May 1 , 2017 Invited talks at ICM 2018 April 15 , 2017
Lewis Bowen, Sean Keel, and Alan Reid have been invited to present
45 min talks at the International Congress of Mathematicians 2018 in Rio de Janeiro.
We congratulate them for this high distinction.
CWUR ranks "interdisciplinary applications of math" at UT #1 in the world April 3 , 2017 Taillefumier has been awarded a Sloan Fellowship March 17 , 2017 Milicia Cudina to receive John Durbin Teaching Award
March 3 , 2017
Milicia Cudina has been selected to receive the 2017 John Durbin
Teaching award. This is a distinguished
recognition of Milicia's service to the Actuarial Program, in particular
her development and teaching of M339D and M339W.
Mathematics is Ranked No. 12 in World by U.S. News Oct 25 , 2016 Engquist receives the 2016 ICCM International Cooperation Award Oct 12 , 2016
Bjorn Engquist received the 2016 International Congress of Chinese
Mathematicians (ICCM) International Cooperation Award for his significant
contributions in nurturing and mentoring a large number of outstanding
Chinese mathematicians, and his strong support of the Chinese mathematical
community throughout his career.
Rachel Ward received 2016 IMA Prize in Mathematics and its Applications Oct 12 , 2016
The IMA Prize in Mathematics and its Applications is awarded annually to a
mathematical scientist who is within 10 years of having received his or
her Ph.D. degree. The award recognizes an individual who has made a
transformative impact on the mathematical sciences and their applications.
Irene Gamba to give SIAM plenary address Aug 13 , 2016
Irene has been
invited to give a plenary lecture at the annual Joint Mathematics
Meeting in Atlanta in January 2017. Irene will deliver the SIAM Invited
Address.
Travis was awarded the 2016 Andrè Lichnerowicz Prize July 11 , 2016
Travis Schedler was awarded the 2016 Andrè Lichnerowicz Prize in Poisson
geometry (shared with Pavel Mnev) at the "International Conference on Poisson Geometry
in Mathematics and Physics" conference, held on July 4-8 at ETH Zurich.