Stony Brook Mathematics Department and Institute for Mathematical Sciences | Stony Brook University
Mathematics Department and the Institute for Mathematical Sciences
Search form Main menu Home Courses Course Schedules Undergraduate course webpages Graduate course webpages Education course webpages First and Second Year Course Overview People Department Directory Faculty Directory Faculty Gallery Staff PhD Students Masters Students PhD Students By Year Faculty Areas of Interest Faculty Awards and Honors Office Hours Genealogy PhD Alumni Committees Calendars Department and IMS Events Department and IMS Events (Google) Simons Center Events YITP Academic Calendars Undergraduate About Mathematics Placement Exam Information Mathematics Placement Examination Math Learning Center Major in Mathematics Advanced Track Honors Program in Mathematics Acceptable upper-division courses for MAT degree Mathematics Secondary Teacher Education Program Minor in Mathematics Degree Checklists Sample Course Sequence for the Major in Mathematics Transfer Credit Undergraduate Advising Schedule Math Club SBU Bulletin: Mathematics Graduate Graduate Program Description Applying for PhD Program PhD Requirements Masters Program (Secondary Teaching Option) Master of Arts Degree (Professional Option) Master of Arts in Teaching Mathematics SBU Graduate School Core Courses SBU Bulletin: Mathematics Conferences Research Research Areas Faculty Research Areas of Interest Dynamical Systems Page I.M.S. Preprints Library Resources Affiliations Stony Brook University College of Arts and Sciences Simons Center for Geometry and Physics Yang Institute for Theoretical Physics Contact Us Quick Links Course schedules Room reservations Office hours Undergraduate Advising Schedule RTG in Geometry Institute for Mathematical Sciences Simons Center for Geometry and Physics Libraries Math Learning Center Members Video Archive Math News Mathematics Colloquium Mathematics Department, Stony Brook University, Stony Brook NY, 11794-3651, USA Mathematics Department, Stony Brook University, Stony Brook NY, 11794-3651, USA Mathematics Colloquium Mathematics Department, Stony Brook University, Stony Brook NY, 11794-3651, USA Mathematics Department, Stony Brook University, Stony Brook NY, 11794-3651, USA Mathematics Colloquium Mathematics Department, Stony Brook University, Stony Brook NY, 11794-3651, USA Mathematics Department, Stony Brook University, Stony Brook NY, 11794-3651, USA Mathematics Colloquium Mathematics Department, Stony Brook University, Stony Brook NY, 11794-3651, USA Mathematics Department, Stony Brook University, Stony Brook NY, 11794-3651, USA Stony Brook Mathematics Department and Institute for Mathematical Sciences     Fields Institute video featuring brief interview with John Milnor Fields Institute video featuring brief interview with John Milnor Fields Institute video featuring brief interview with John Milnor Congratulations to Julia Viro, on being named a Senior Lecturer Congratulations to Julia Viro, on being named a Senior Lecturer Congratulations to Julia Viro, on being named a Senior Lecturer         Upcoming Events Stony Brook University News Dr. James A. Vosswinkel Named First Endowed Professor of Trauma Surgery Thursday, September 14, 2017 - 11:03 James A. Vosswinkel, MD, Chief of Trauma, Emergency Surgery and Surgical Critical Care, and Medical Director of the Stony Brook Trauma Center and Surgical Intensive Care Unit at Stony Brook Medicine, was named the inaugural Lillian and Leonard Schneider Endowed Professor in Trauma Surgery at a Stony Brook University investiture ceremony on September 7, 2017. E-Mental Health Tool May Be Key for Astronauts to Cope with Anxiety, Depression in Space Wednesday, September 13, 2017 - 11:20 A clinical trial of an innovative e-mental health tool led by a Stony Brook University psychiatry professor to help address stress, anxiety and/or depression will begin on September 18. The trial is designed to inform the delivery of mental health treatments for astronauts on long duration space missions. The National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA)-funded study involves "astronaut-like" individuals and is being developed in conjunction with researchers from the Black Dog Institute in Australia. Stony Brook University Recognized For Retention and Increased Graduation Rates in U.S. News & World Report's 2018 Best Colleges Tuesday, September 12, 2017 - 18:30 Stony Brook University is once again ranked within the top 100 among U.S. colleges and universities (#97) and ranks as #41 among public universities according to the U.S. News & World Report's 2018 Best Colleges. Stony Brook also fared much better than expected in the category of 6-year graduation rate by achieving a 72 percent graduation rate vs. the expected rate of 69 percent. New Cardiac Cath Lab Brings Lifesaving Care to the North and South Forks Wednesday, September 6, 2017 - 10:00 On Tuesday, September 5, Stony Brook Medicine opened a fully-operational cardiac catheterization laboratory at Stony Brook Southampton Hospital, making it the only facility on the East End of Long Island capable of providing clinically complex care to critically ill heart patients. Services offered include cardiac catheterization, angioplasty, stenting, intravascular ultrasound, and Impella®, a treatment to improve blood flow in heart failure patients requiring care in the lab. New Computational Model of Chemical Building Blocks May Help Explain the Origins of Life Wednesday, August 23, 2017 - 14:13 Scientists have yet to understand and explain how life's informational molecules - proteins and DNA and RNA - arose from simpler chemicals when life on earth emerged some four billion years ago. Now a research team from the Stony Brook University Laufer Center for Physical and Quantitative Biology and the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory believe they have the answer. They developed a computational model explaining how certain molecules fold and bind together to grow longer and more complex, leading from simple chemicals to primitive biological molecules. The findings are reported early online in PNAS. Research Center Established to Explore the Least Understood and Strongest Force Behind Visible Matter Tuesday, August 22, 2017 - 10:01 Science can explain only a small portion of the matter that makes up the universe, from the earth we walk on to the stars we see at night. Stony Brook University and the U.S. Department of Energy's (DOE) Brookhaven National Laboratory (BNL) have established the Center for Frontiers of Nuclear Science to help scientists better understand the building blocks of visible matter. The new Center will push the frontiers of knowledge about quarks, gluons and their interactions that form protons, neutrons, and ultimately 99.9 percent of the mass of atoms - the bulk of the visible universe. LI Natives, international Students Make up Diverse Group of Incoming Med Students Monday, August 21, 2017 - 12:47 Future physicians took the Hippocratic Oath and donned physician-in-training white coats for the first time at Stony Brook University's traditional White Coat Ceremony, the 20th annual event held on August 13 at the Student Activities Center. The incoming class of 136 students is the largest in the school's history. The Class of 2021 is a diverse group with varied backgrounds ranging from Long island natives to international students. Stony Brook Awarded Grant for National STEM Education Initiative from Keck Foundation Tuesday, August 15, 2017 - 14:51 Stony Brook University has received a three-year $300,000 grant from the W.M. Keck Foundation to support a national program housed at Stony Brook that will expand educational courses connecting indigenous knowledge to science. The program will also help advance partnerships between educators and indigenous populations. Stony Brook Receives $1 Million for Brain Aging Research from Keck Foundation Tuesday, August 15, 2017 - 13:36 Stony Brook University has received a three-year $1 million grant from the W.M. Keck Foundation to fund research that uses brain imaging data to understand how the nutrition of brain neurons affects cognition in aging humans. The research could provide a critical first step toward personalized medicine in neurology for aging patients. New 13 million-year-old infant skull sheds light on ape ancestry Wednesday, August 9, 2017 - 13:00 Stony Brook, NY, August 9, 2017 - The discovery in Kenya of a remarkably complete fossil ape skull reveals what the common ancestor of all living apes and humans may have looked like. The find, to be announced in the scientific journal Nature on August 10th, belongs to an infant that lived about 13 million years ago. The research was done by an international team led by Isaiah Nengo of the Stony Brook University-affiliated Turkana Basin Institute, Stony Brook University, and De Anza College, U.S.A.           Walking Directions from LIRR Train Station