DNR: Fishing Guide & Regulations
× × Header IN.gov Main Navigation Business & Agriculture Residents Government Education Taxes & Finance Visiting & Playing Family & Health Main Menu All Categories Indiana Department of Natural Resources Sidebar Table of Contents Side Navigation Fish & Wildlife Home Social Links Facebook Facebook YouTube YouTube Twitter Twitter GovDelivery GovDelivery Flickr Flickr Top FAQs Top FAQs I Want To... I Want To... Find out where to hunt Get help with a nuisance animal Get help for an orphaned/injured animal Report a poacher Report a dead/sick bat Donate to the nongame fund Article Section Breadcrumbs Fish & Wildlife Fishing Current:
Fishing Guide & Regulations Online Indiana Fishing Regulation Guide. PDF Version. Regulacions de pesca 2015 Buy a License or Stamp Where to Fish License Fees License Exemptions Statewide Size and Bag Limits Boating Rules and Regulations Indiana-Michigan Border Lakes Indiana or Michigan residents fishing in any of the waters listed below and who possess a valid fishing license for either state, are permitted to fish in these lakes while following the laws and regulations of the state having jurisdiction over that portion of the lake.
To reveal a section, click on a link below. Name, date of birth, Indiana Driver’s License number or Social Security number
Complete address, city, state, ZIP and phone number
Height, weight, color of hair and eyes Include a check or money order (payable to DNR) or Visa or MasterCard (include number, expiration date). Send the order information and payment to: Indiana disabled American veterans can get a DAV fishing license application form from the County Service Officer or download the application form at fishing.IN.gov. Mail the form with a stamped, self-addressed envelope to the DNR Customer Service Center. Catch most fish species year-round. Note: There are season restrictions for trout on inland streams, Lake Michigan and its tributaries, and for paddlefish on the Ohio River. Fish with a trot line – a line that extends into the water from a fixed point and has smaller drop lines attached to it; limited to one trot line at a time with no more than 50 single- or multi-barbed hooks, and each drop line having only one hook. A legible tag with the name and address of the user must be affixed to each trot line. Take carp, gar, bowfin, buffalo and shad with a spear, gig, spear gun, bow and arrow or underwater spear under certain conditions and on limited waters. Crossbows may not be used. See fishing.IN.gov for details. Float or jug fish by using a buoyed container that suspends a single line and a single- or multi-barbed hook. As many as five floats may be used. Each float must be marked with the user’s name and address, and the user must be in constant visual contact with all floats. NOTE: Float fishing is not allowed on lakes and reservoirs for public safety reasons. Use landing nets, gaff hooks or grab hooks to assist in landing legally caught fish. Note: These devices may not be used as a method of catching fish. Keep fish you catch for an aquarium if the fish meets legal size and bag limit requirements. Take smelt from Lake Michigan and Oliver Lake (LaGrange County) from March 1 through May 30. Smelt may be taken only with a single seine or net. The seine or net may not exceed 12 feet in length and 6 feet in depth nor have a stretch mesh larger than 1 ½ inches. A dip net may not exceed 12 feet in diameter. Brookville Reservoir
Cecil M. Harden Reservoir
Monroe Reservoir
Patoka Reservoir
Lake Freeman
Lake Shafer
Hardy Lake
Ohio River mainstem, excluding all embayments
A U.S. Coast Guard approved wearable personal flotation device (Type 1, 2, 3 or 5) is required for each person on any boat. Boats 16 feet and longer, except for canoes or kayaks, must also have one USCG-approved throwable PFD on board.
Online Services Buy a hunting or fishing license Obtain a migratory bird Harvest Information Program number Reprint Your License Register for a Reserved Hunt Check Game Online Find Your Customer ID Buy a License Gift Certificate Footer Get Help Live Chat with State Information Center Email State Information Center Find a Person Find an Agency 1-317-232-4200 Quick Information IN.gov User Survey Advanced Search Policies Sitemap IN.gov FAQs State Information Maps & Information IN.gov News & Events Email Updates - GovDelivery Indiana Code Indiana Administrative Code IN.gov Settings Contrast Setting Text Setting Accessibility Tools Text Only Version of IN.gov Website Google Translate Social Media Links YouTube YouTube Facebook Facebook Twitter Twitter Instagram Instagram GovDelivery GovDelivery 2017