46 Bait & Tackle - CLOSED - Outdoor Gear - 22 E Columbia Ave, Palisades Park, NJ - Phone Number - Yelp
Find Near Search Oops, we can't find your location You're good to go! Reload this Yelp page and try your search again. You're good to go! Reload this Yelp page and try your search again. MacOS may now prompt you to enable Location Services. If it does, follow its instructions to enable Location Services for Safari. Close the Privacy menu and refresh the page. Try using Current Location search again. If it works, great! If not, read on for more instructions. You're good to go! Close the Settings tab, reload this Yelp page, and try your search again. You're good to go! Refresh this Yelp page and try your search again.
You can also search near a city, place, or address instead.
You're good to go! Refresh this Yelp page and try your search again.
You can also search near a city, place, or address instead.
Oops! We don't recognize the web browser you're currently using. Try checking the browser's help menu, or searching the Web for instructions to turn on HTML5 Geolocation for your browser.
You can also search near a city, place, or address instead.
Air Conditioning & Heating
Contractors
Electricians
Home Cleaners
Landscapers
Locksmiths
Movers
Painters
Plumbers
4 22 E Columbia Ave Palisades Park NJ 07650
(201) 917-5282
Rare to find these days.
A local bait and tackle shop with a selection that rivals Dicks.
If you looking for tackle for freshwater or saltwater, you can find it here. The owner is knowledgable and helpful, but some of the workers don't fish at all.
Huge selection of rods- $20 no name rods to Lamiglas rods. Same for the reels- nice selection and they have Van Stals.
I picked up a new St Croix Mojo rod for $70. Sweet....
A lot of rigs, lures, and all types of tackle. They also sell used gear.
The sell live bait, but I have never purchased any from them, so I won't comment.
Have Fun
A few years back, purchased blood worms and they all too small and skinny so complete wasted money. All the merchandise are too pricy in this store! I've seen better prices via on line.
Stopped in to get some fatheads. Chinese guy looked at us like we were from another planet when we asked for fatheads. Had no clue what they were. Told em live fish bait and he said we no have. Looked to side and all the tanks were empty. Asked for mealworms and he says maybe next week. Are you kidding me? Opening weekend and you have no bait? So much for a "bait" & tackle store.
Guy is very friendly.
Store has ALOT to offer.
tons of fishing poles and tackle and fishing gear.
They also have bait and bunkers. and offer deep sea trips.
And the prices are good.
lures are cheaper then big sporting good stores.
This is my new fishing shop.
46 Bait & Tackle
4 reviews
, Opens a popup Rating details $$ , Opens a popup Edit categories Share , Opens a popup Bookmark , Opens a popup
Get directions 46 Bait & Tackle - CLOSED Get directions Edit Phone number
(201) 917-5282
Shopping Sporting Goods Outdoor Gear Active Life Fishing
×
Yelp Sort Yelp Sort Newest First Oldest First Highest Rated Lowest Rated Elites English (4) English (4)
2/8/2015
3 people voted for this review
Useful 3 Funny Cool Others will see how you vote! Yes, Let Me Vote!
4/12/2016
A few years back, purchased blood worms and they all too small and skinny so complete wasted money. All the merchandise are too pricy in this store! I've seen better prices via on line.
1 person voted for this review
Useful 1 Funny Cool Others will see how you vote! Yes, Let Me Vote!
4/6/2014
Stopped in to get some fatheads. Chinese guy looked at us like we were from another planet when we asked for fatheads. Had no clue what they were. Told em live fish bait and he said we no have. Looked to side and all the tanks were empty. Asked for mealworms and he says maybe next week. Are you kidding me? Opening weekend and you have no bait? So much for a "bait" & tackle store.
1 person voted for this review
Useful 1 Funny Cool Others will see how you vote! Yes, Let Me Vote!
3/23/2011
Guy is very friendly.  Store has ALOT to offer.  tons of fishing poles and tackle and fishing gear.  They also have bait and bunkers. and offer deep sea trips.  And the prices are good.  lures are cheaper then big sporting good stores.  This is my new fishing shop.
13 people voted for this review
Useful 10 Funny 2 Cool 2 Others will see how you vote! Yes, Let Me Vote! Business info summary $$
Hours
More business info People also viewed Totowa Bait & Tackle Shop
3 reviews
Campmor
129 reviews
Urban Angler
11 reviews
Other places nearby
Find more Fishing near 46 Bait & Tackle
Find more Outdoor Gear near 46 Bait & Tackle
Browse nearby Restaurants Nightlife Shopping Show all People found 46 Bait & Tackle by searching for… Rating Details 1 1
0 1 1 Text to Phone 46 Bait & Tackle - CLOSED 4 $$ Text Link About Discover Yelp for Business Owners Languages
Bahasa Malaysia (Malaysia)
Čeština (Česká republika)
Dansk (Danmark)
Deutsch (Deutschland)
Deutsch (Schweiz)
Deutsch (Österreich)
English (Australia)
English (Belgium)
English (Canada)
English (Hong Kong)
English (Malaysia)
English (New Zealand)
English (Philippines)
English (Republic of Ireland)
English (Singapore)
English (Switzerland)
English (United Kingdom)
English (United States)
Español (Argentina)
Español (Chile)
Español (España)
Español (México)
Filipino (Pilipinas)
Français (Belgique)
Français (Canada)
Français (France)
Français (Suisse)
Italiano (Italia)
Italiano (Svizzera)
Nederlands (België)
Nederlands (Nederland)
Norsk (Norge)
Polski (Polska)
Português (Brasil)
Português (Portugal)
Suomi (Suomi)
Svenska (Finland)
Svenska (Sverige)
Türkçe (Türkiye)
日本語 (日本)
繁體中文 (台灣)
繁體中文 (香港)
Countries
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Belgium
Brazil
Canada
Chile
Czech Republic
Denmark
Finland
France
Germany
Hong Kong
Italy
Japan
Malaysia
Mexico
New Zealand
Norway
Philippines
Poland
Portugal
Republic of Ireland
Singapore
Spain
Sweden
Switzerland
Taiwan
The Netherlands
Turkey
United Kingdom
United States
Site Map Atlanta Austin Boston Chicago Dallas Denver Detroit Honolulu Houston Los Angeles Miami Minneapolis New York Philadelphia Portland Sacramento San Diego San Francisco San Jose Seattle Washington, DC More Cities