5 rescued from capsized sport fishing boat at NC Outer Banks | WNCN
Local News NC News Across the South Check This Out National International Politics Traffic map What’s Next Education Pets & Animals Entertainment WNCN News App Safe Drive Pledge Consumer Protection Health with Dr. Campbell #Brake4Buses Watch Live CBS on WNCN Great Carolina Eclipse Forecast Weather Facts Futurecast 7-day forecast Radar Current conditions Flight tracker WNCN Weather App Hurricane Central Webcams Satellite SatRad Severe 3-Degree Guarantee Closings Investigates What’s the Deal Carolina Panthers UNC Duke N.C. State Hurricanes College basketball On the Rise WNCN Blitz TV listings TV Listings CBS Shows Carolina Experts Pet of the Day AntennaTV Technical Help Watch Live News Team Technical Help #Brake4Buses At Your Service WNCN Mobile Apps CBS on WNCN Contact us Work for Us F Few Clouds Hi: 84° F Lo: 65° F Radar Forecast Current conditions Menu News Local News NC News Across the South Check This Out National International Politics Traffic map What’s Next Education Pets & Animals Entertainment WNCN News App Safe Drive Pledge Consumer Protection Health with Dr. Campbell #Brake4Buses Watch Live CBS on WNCN Latest Headlines Armani, Versace add Italian glitz to London Fashion Week LONDON (AP) — London Fashion Week is getting an injection of Italian glamour, with Donatella Versace’s Versus and Emporio Armani joining Bri… Irma evacuation nightmare: Next time some may not leave FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. (AP) — After a painful flight across several states to escape unpredictable Hurricane Irma, Suzanne Pallot says it’s u… Top US diplomat says closing Embassy in Cuba ‘under review’ Merkel answers questions at children’s press conference Trump advisers warn North Korea to give up weapons programs Weather Great Carolina Eclipse Forecast Weather Facts Futurecast 7-day forecast Radar Current conditions Flight tracker WNCN Weather App Hurricane Central Webcams Satellite SatRad Severe 3-Degree Guarantee Closings Current Conditions F Few Clouds 81° F NE 8 62% 65° F 6:58 AM 7:18 PM
Sponsored by: Investigates What’s the Deal Carolina Panthers UNC Duke N.C. State Hurricanes College basketball On the Rise WNCN Blitz TV listings TV Listings CBS Shows Carolina Experts Pet of the Day AntennaTV Technical Help Watch Live News Team Technical Help #Brake4Buses At Your Service WNCN Mobile Apps CBS on WNCN Contact us Work for Us Search for: F Few Clouds Hi: 84° F Lo: 65° F 5 rescued from capsized sport fishing boat at NC Outer Banks Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window) Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window) OREGON INLET, N.C (WAVY/WNCN) – The Coast Guard rescued five people Saturday afternoon after a boat capsized on the Oregon Inlet Bar. Coast Guard Station Oregon Inlet was notified at 5 p.m. and launched a motor lifeboat. Upon arrival, the boat crew spotted the vessel capsized in 4 to 6 inch breaking seas, along with numerous pieces of debris in the water. The crew spotted five people on board all huddled together, struggling to stay above water. The crew was able to get to the people to safety. From Coast Guard photos it appears the boat that capsized, Synergy from Manteo, is a 54-foot Custom Carolina sport-fishing boat built by Gwaltney Boat Works in 1990, according to information from Synergy Sportfishing. A Facebook page for Synergy Sportfishing lists the boat as a charter fishing vessel, which underwent a complete renovation in the Spring of 2017.
The five people were transported back to the Station where Dare County EMS was awaiting to assist and transport to a local hospital.   Share this: Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window) Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Click to print (Opens in new window) Click to email (Opens in new window) More More Click to share on Pocket (Opens in new window) Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window) Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) Search suspended for missing NC boater after fisherman dies, Coast Guard says VIDEO: 5 rescued from capsized boat near NC island Search for two missing NC boaters suspended by Coast Guard VIDEO: Coast Guard rescues 1 child, 4 adults from water off NC coast Advertisement Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
(required) (Address never made public) (required) Connecting to %s Advertisement Trending NORTH CAROLINA NEWS Fair worker hurt when he falls trying to fix Ferris wheel GREENSBORO, N.C. (AP) — A fair worker who was trying to fix a broken Ferris wheel in North Carolina fell from the ride and suffered minor in… NC boys talk about terrifying ride on Ferris wheel where worker fell The two mothers on the ground could only watch as their kids swung back and forth. 5 rescued from capsized sport fishing boat at NC Outer Banks The vessel capsized in 4-6 inch breaking seas along with numerous pieces of debris NC mom wants answers in daughter’s 2015 disappearance “I think about her on a cold morning, when it snows, when it rains, when it floods. Where is she?” the mother asked. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement WNCN.com Sections News Weather Sports Station Contact us Work at CBS North Carolina Work for Us Closings Closed Captioning Terms of Use Privacy Policy Business Advertising Terms and Conditions and Credit Policy FCC Public File For problems with the FCC Public File email jwilliams@wncn.com EEO Public Filings Children’s Programming Follow Subscribe via RSS Follow us on Twitter Join us on Facebook Follow us on YouTube Follow us on Instagram Advertisement Cancel