Fishing | North Dakota Game and Fish
Search Search Main menu Buy and Apply Licensing Hunting and Trapping Fishing Licenses Fishing Regulations Where to Fish Aquatic Nuisance Species Fish Identification Miscellaneous Boating Wildlife and Conservation Education Maps Media and Publications News Calendar PLOTS/Private Lands Services for People with Disabilities About Us Website Navigation Help Fishing Fishing Fishing Licenses Purchase a fishing license on the Department's online licensing system. Fishing licenses types, prices and other information. Fishing Regulations List of current fishing related regulations. Registration is required prior to darkhouse spearfishing in North Dakota. Information on paddlefish and the spring snagging season. Fishing contests in which prizes or cash are given for catching fish from waters open to the public must receive a permit from the Game and Fish Department. Requirements and application. Fishing FAQs Walleye Regulation Fact Sheets Where to Fish Maps, boating access, fishing piers and facilities, fish stocking and other fishing related information. Maps showing when and where different species of fish have been stocked in state waters. Fish Identification Guide to identifying common fish found in North Dakota waters. Aquatic Nuisance Species Descriptions of ANS species known or thought to be in North Dakota Waters Permitting system based on the need to control movement into or within North Dakota while allowing for traditional, educational, and/or beneficial uses of select aquatic species. Maps showing locations of current known infestations of ANS in North Dakota. ANS FAQs Online ANS Observation Report Form Tagged Fish Reporting Information derived from reports of tagged fish captures is critical for understanding and managing fish populations in the state. Please report tags online at the link above.   Records, Clubs and Certificates Information on current records and on how to submit a fish for a record. Club rules and applications. Certificate from the North Dakota Game and Fish Department celebrating an angler's first catch. Miscellaneous Fishing Information Video showing the process used for deboning northern pike. Red River fishing guide produced by the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources, Division of Fish and Wildlife with technical assistance provided by the North Dakota Game and Fish Department. Information on outdoor related services available to people with disabilities in North Dakota including a list of handicap accessible fishing facilities. Main navigation Main navigation Buy and Apply Licensing Hunting and Trapping Fishing Licenses Fishing Regulations Where to Fish Aquatic Nuisance Species Fish Identification Miscellaneous Boating Wildlife and Conservation Education Maps Media and Publications News Calendar PLOTS/Private Lands Services for People with Disabilities About Us Website Navigation Help Connect ND Back to Top ND Privacy | Security | Disclaimer