Global Fishing Watch |
Map How To FAQ Tutorials Definitions Discover Making A Difference Blog Research Research Program Publications Data About The Project Leadership Partners In the News Contact Us Login Login
A New Era in Transparency Through a partnership between Global Fishing Watch and the government of Indonesia, Vessel Monitoring System (VMS) data is being made available to the public for the first time ever. Photo: © Steve De Neef “Global Fishing Watch is the first effective tool to track commercial fishing around the world. Now anyone can help put an end to the massive overfishing that is decimating fisheries everywhere and help authorities protect our precious marine ecosystems before it’s too late.” — Leonardo DiCaprio The Leonardo DiCaprio Foundation is proud to be a Funding Partner of Global Fishing Watch. Introducing Global Fishing Watch Global Fishing Watch enables anyone with an internet connection to see fishing activity anywhere in the ocean in near real time — for free EXPLORE THE MAP Photo: Juan Cuetos See where fishing is happening Observe fishing patterns and activity determined by Global Fishing Watch based on vessel position, course and speed as derived from Automatic Identification System broadcasts. Photo: © OCEANA / Eduardo Sorensen Improve fisheries management worldwide Provide tools for governments, fishery management organizations, scientists, private industry, and NGOs to implement rules and regulations that will ensure a sustainable and abundant ocean. Photo: Photo: Hoatzinexp/iStock/Thinkstock Indonesia Reveals Its Fishing Fleet to the World Through Global Fishing Watch Reefer Caught in Illegal Shark Transport Seen Transhipping
Welcome Tony Long Our First Permanent CEO
Tell Us Your Story!
60 , 000 FISHING VESSELS TRACKED 24
+ billion DATA POINTS PROCESSED 5 + YEARS OF DATA Step 1: Satellites Over the course of the year, 200,000+ vessels, including more than 60,000 known or likely commercial fishing boats, broadcast their position, course, and speed through AIS. Fleets of satellites record these broadcasts and transmit the information to Earth. Step 2: Data Processing 22+ million data points are added to the system every day. Using cloud computing and machine learning, Global Fishing Watch processes the data, identifying which vessels are fishing boats, and when and where they are fishing. Step 3: Engage Once the data are visualized on Global Fishing Watch, anyone can track fishing activity across the globe. THE MAP Explore Now START HERE map faq tutorials definitions In Action research program publications data the project leadership partners blog in the news terms of use privacy policy CONTACT US
Scroll to top