We’re Killing the Oldest Fish in the Sea
We’re Killing the Oldest Fish in the Sea Fishing eliminates most of the older fish, a new study finds, and the ecological implications are disturbing—but marine reserves can help. View Images An Atlantic cod swims through a kelp-forested peak on the highest underwater range in the Gulf of Maine, Cashes Ledge. In one of the first studies of its kind, a team of fish experts used models and fish-catch data to analyze 63 major fish populations around the United States and Europe, from Atlantic cod and Greenland halibut to rockfish, hake, grouper, and sole. They found significant declines in the oldest fish in nearly 80 percent of the populations. In roughly one-third, the number of older fish had declined by more than 90 percent. Older fish may eat different things and live in different areas of the ocean from their younger counterparts. Many fish settle as juveniles in kelp or mangrove beds then move offshore. Older fish also tend be better at producing viable offspring—offspring that tend to be larger. Killing too many older fish can make the rest of the population more susceptible to disease, rising temperatures, or pollution, and can put the entire population at greater risk of collapse, researchers suggests. Just like protecting the oldest trees in an old-growth forest, "biodiversity translates to more stability," Barnett says.
Sometimes Saving Fish Takes Fishermen
Their Luck Runs Out You Might Also Like How Divers Rescued Four Car-Sized Sharks
Baja California’s Recipe for Saving Fishing Communities
Watch: Seal Pup Rescued From Fishing Nets
The problem is actually quite simple. Few fishing methods distinguish between young fish and old fish, so most commercial operations wind up hauling in fish of many ages. Over time, all fish are exposed repeatedly to nets or hooks. As they age, fewer and fewer of the older ones escape being caught. They are disproportionately reduced in number. For example, he says, Pacific whiting (also called hake), one of the biggest fisheries along the West Coast of the U.S., is considered well-managed. The fish is used in fish sandwiches, frozen fish sticks, omega-3 oils and surimi. Whiting numbers currently are quite high. Yet researchers found that fishing had taken more than 90 percent of the oldest age group. "If you don't like that," Branch says, "then we have to change the way we manage fisheries." A Simple Solution One way is to adopt so-called slot limits—limits on catching fish above a certain size. That would tend to protect older members of a population. But it can also be complex and expensive, both for the industry and regulators. An alternative is to rotate fishing zones season after season, much as farmers rotate crops, to give some areas a chance to recover. But perhaps the simplest way of protecting old fish is one that has earned more attention in recent years: establish marine reserves. By protecting more areas as no-fishing zones, you assure some portion of the senior age class is never in danger of being caught. "I'm a firm proponent that some areas should be set aside," Branch says. "To keep old fish, you're going to have to give up some portion of the catch." But, he adds, that might be the best way to make sure that fish are around to catch for years to come. "Consider it an insurance policy," he says. Read More © 1996-2017 National Geographic Society.