Old Fishing Store - 21310 | Ideas | LEGO Shop
(0)
(0)
(0)
(0) SHOP Search SUBMIT SEARCH 0 0 FREE Exclusive Poster with a LEGO® NINJAGO® purchase!* LEARN MORE Home Home Ideas Ideas Old Fishing Store Old Fishing Store Ideas LEGO® Old Fishing Store $149.99 98.8% 18 tooltip.open quantity_select_hidden_label 1 BACKORDER ADD TO WISHLIST FIND MORE PRODUCTS LIKE THIS Product Details Product Details Prepare for the ultimate fishing trip! 149 tooltip.open Facebook Twitter Google Plus Pinterest Features Features BACKORDER Visit the beachside Old Fishing Store, featuring a shop packed with fishing-themed elements, and a connected watchtower with a 360-degree viewing balcony and office on the lower level. Ideal for display and role-play, this model has 2 removable roofs, an opening back wall in the shop for easy access, 4 minifigures, cat and 3 seagull figures, as well as loads of other cool details and elements to fire up the imagination.
Includes 4 minifigures: a captain, fisherman, fisherwoman and a child, plus cat and 3 seagull figures.
Old Fishing Store features a detailed exterior, shop and connected lookout tower with office, all standing on a sand-colored LEGO® 32x32 baseplate with rock-style elements.
Exterior features steps to the front and side doors of the store, railings, a tap with 2 pipes with meters on the back wall, ventilator and assorted elements including: ‘Anton's Bait Shop' sign (2x4 tile), opening times sign, ‘gone fishin’’ sign, anchor, barrel, 2 tires with chains, 3 crates with 2 fish and transparent ice-style elements, 4 fish hanging on hooks, 2 life preservers, box of hooks (1x2 tile), and a toolbox with a drill, oil can and wrench.
Shop features an opening back wall and removable roof with mismatched timber-style elements and decorative stickers, 2 ceiling light elements, 2 opening entrance doors, 2 glass-style windows, green and beige floor tiles, 4 opening windows, shop counter, display racks, plus assorted elements including: cash register, mug, bottle, hook boxes, cash, desktop lamp, 2 oars, fishing gear including rods, harpoons and fishing nets, 3 diving helmets, 3 oxygen tanks, 4 diving flippers, a sextant, decorated map tile, TNT box, plus a spider and spider's web under the floor.
Lookout tower lower level features an office with 2 opening windows, boarded-up window with newspaper sticker, desk, chair, lamp and newspaper elements, plus a ladder to the upper level.
Lookout tower upper level features a removable roof with a weather vane, 2 opening windows, 360-degree viewing balcony, plus assorted elements including a telescope, flag, ship’s wheel, lantern and 2 decorative crabs.
Great for display or role-play fun.
Includes a booklet about the fan designer and LEGO® designer of this set.
This set includes over 2,045 pieces.
Measures over 12” (32cm) high, 9” (25cm) wide and 9” (25cm) deep. BACKORDER Old Fishing Store 4.9 5 18 5 5 DarthDerk610 This set is amazing! Got this today in store at my local lego store, came home and started assembling. Did not notice the time go by and I had finished it in less than 5 hours. Very entertaining and very detailed. I was suprised by everything you can fit into the store. Only downside is that the walk way to the office I presume, is too small for a minifigure to squeeze through. That would be my only complaint. 5 5 ElBricksperto Hands down the BEST modular building EVER This set is so amazing. Play value is great, Build quality is outstanding, part selection is perfect, Overall it's such a great and unique set like no other! This is by far my favorite Ideas set ever released and I would not think twice about buying any more sets like this, amazing! Also I might go and buy another one just to see what I can come up with using the parts and try and make a second shop to go next to it. 5 5 Chickey Fun build I love this set, it's quite easy to build. Overall it's fun, packed and quirky. If you like the modular builds then you need to get this set. The detail is amazing and there's lots of interesting features that make this a ramshackle fishing store. 5 5 Dvsjackal Best set ever? I have all the Lego modular sets, and in my own personal opinion this Lego Ideas set is by far the best "modular" set yet!
Me and my daughter spent 5 hours constructing it, and i was just amazed by how much detail there is!
for me this set, sets a bench for the next Lego Modular Building. Old Fishing Store Reviews - page 2 y_2017, m_9, d_16, h_2 bvseo_bulk, prod_bvrr, vn_bulk_2.0.3 cp_1, bvpage1 co_hasreviews, tv_0, tr_18 loc_, sid_21310, prod, sort_[SortEntry(order=RELEVANCE, direction=DESCENDING)] clientName_lego bvseo-2.0.1.4 bvseo-true bvseo-j bvseo-CLOUD bvseo-20ms bvseo-REVIEWS bvseo-PRODUCT bvseo-getContent FREE Exclusive Poster with a LEGO® NINJAGO® purchase!* LEARN MORE Find a LEGO® Store Subscribe to LEGO® Shop Emails Stay Connected to LEGO® Community Check Order Status 001-800-835-4386 Contact Us Building Instructions Missing Parts Common Questions Your Satisfaction Shipping & Handling Payment Methods Terms & Conditions Gift Cards Privacy Policy Offers and Promotions Request a LEGO® Catalog LEGO® VIP Program LEGOLAND® LEGO® Life The LEGO® Store LEGO® Education LEGO Systems, Inc. 555 Taylor Road, Enfield, CT 06082, USA. Must be 18 years or older to purchase online. ©2017 The LEGO Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site signifies your agreement to the terms of use.