Where to Fish
North Carolina Wildlife Resources Commission Licenses and Regulations Hunting Fishing Trapping Licenses Permit Hunting Opportunities Other Licenses & Permits Regulations Conserving North Carolina's Wildlife Resources Species Habitats Land Management Municipalities/Counties Programs Learn/Resources NWAC Hunting in North Carolina Before the Hunt Hunter Education Where to Hunt Seasons & Limits Laws & Safety After the Hunt Learn/Resources Big Game Harvest Reporting Trapping in North Carolina What to Trap Seasons & Limits Laws & Safety Furbearer Management Learn/Resources Fishing in North Carolina Where to Fish What to Catch Hatcheries & Stocking Laws & Safety Seasons & Limits Fishing Records Learn/Resources Boating in North Carolina Registration & Titling Where to Boat Boater's Guides Laws & Safety Marina Resources Learning About North Carolina's Wildlife Resources Species Habitats Education Centers Courses, Seminars & Workshops Laws & Safety Multimedia Center Publications Outdoor Activities in North Carolina Shooting Ranges Game Land Activities Disabled Opportunities Outdoor Heritage Advisory Council About Wildlife Resources Commission Director's Office Commissioners Division Chiefs History Meetings / Actions Organization Chart Contacts Latest News and Events Blog Wildlife Email Update Blog Careers at Wildlife Resources Commission Available Positions How to Apply Benefits Become an Enforcement Officer Career Contacts Internships Store Fishing Where to Fish Where to Fish This section provides information on more than 500 publicly accessible places to fish in North Carolina. You can find information on the location of publicly accessible fishing piers, boat ramps, and canoe launches, as well as places that provide bank and wade fishing opportunities. The NCWRC Fish Attractor Map and Coordinates are provided, as well as additional resources such as the NCWRC county trout fishing maps and a link to the North Carolina Division of Marine Fisheries website. The interactive fishing access map is intended to be a comprehensive information source for anglers looking for a place to fish in North Carolina.  The map allows you to view public fishing areas and NCWRC managed trout streams throughout the state.   The viewer can search for public sites based on the type of access they are interested in (i.e. piers, boat ramps, universal access, etc.), the species they are interested in, access sites within a specific county, sites within a specific distance from their location, or by water body name.  Use the Public Mountain Trout Waters Search to locate a great new place to fish for trout in the mountains of North Carolina or learn more about the rules and regulations of trout fishing.    This search can help you locate Public Mountain Trout Waters and show you which regulatory classifications apply. You can open a map and zoom to the selected water once you have made a list of locations or save your list as a PDF document to read when you are on the go. Create and download a fishing access guide in PDF format.       Fish attractor coordinates for downloading to personal GPS devices:     Updated September 2015 At Your Service Vessel Registration & Renewal Find a Wildlife Service Agent
Subscribe to Wildlife Magazine Give/Donate Pending Rules Stream Conditions To assist anglers and boaters, the N.C. Wildlife Resources Commission has compiled a list of websites that provide information on current stream flow conditions and projected release schedules from hydro power stations. N.C. Stream Conditions List Headquarters Location Mailing Address: Copyright © 2017 N.C. Wildlife Resources Commission