Fishing & boating Resources. Start fishing today
Learn To Fish & Boat Where To Fish & Boat State Info Get started fishing today, purchase your fishing license online, check regulations and more. Welcome to your one-stop resource for everything fishing and boating.
Show us your #FirstCatch Read More Freshwater fishing gear Read More 3 Types of Fish Habitat Restoration Efforts Improving Water
Read More How to Fish Learn how to set the hook in order to catch more fish. Saltwater Fishing Plan your next saltwater fishing adventure with your family and friends. Freshwater Fishing Freshwater fishing is one of the types of fishing that is ideal for beginning anglers. Places to Boat and Fish Nearby How to Fly Fish Fly fishing is fun, relaxing and easy to learn. Ice Fishing Ice fishing is a unique experience that allows you to fish on a lake or river. Get Started Boating Learn how to boat safely and responsibly with these tips from our boating experts. Explore Fish Species Learn about each species’ habitat, suggested fishing methods and recommended baits and lures. Use our Fish Species Explorer to find the freshwater fish or saltwater fish you expect to catch on your next fishing adventure.
4 of the Best Boating Lakes in the USA to Go This Year Look for These 5 Underrated Florida Freshwater Fish Species A Few Important Freshwater Fish Identification Tips Best Saltwater Fishing Day Trips From Orlando Simple Tips on How to Catch Croaker & Why They’re Prized Sheepshead Bay Fishing: New York City’s Fishing Paradise
NEWSLETTER SIGNUP Receive our latest blogs, videos, and news about fishing and boating with the monthly newsletter. Get tips and more information in how you can start fishing and boating today with your family and friends. Please complete the following fields to subscribe. Select A State Click on your state to find out where to buy a fishing license, types of fishing licenses available, age requirements, fishing regulations and fishing license online options. Click on your state to find out how to register your boat, requirements, regulations and to get more information.