Hiking - NYS Dept. of Environmental Conservation
Skip to content Department of Environmental Conservation Destinations Freshwater Fishing Hunting and Trapping Marine Fishing and Shellfishing Camping Hiking Boating and Paddling Other Outdoor Activities Animals and Fish Forests and Trees Invasive Species Waterbodies Water Withdrawal and Floods Climate Change Maps Waste and Recycling Petroleum and Chemical Storage Site Cleanup Water Air Pesticides Oil & Gas Wells and Mining Regulations Permits and Licenses Environmental Assessment Hearings Public Protection and Enforcement Environmental Justice Guidance and Policy Documents Press Releases Environmental Notice Bulletin Conservationist Magazine Kids and Teachers Classes and Training Help for Businesses Living Green Skip to main navigation Hiking From breathtaking mountain views to city skylines, lush forests to miles of coastline-New York has a diverse landscape and what better way to see it than by hiking. There are thousands of miles of trails across the state for hikers of all abilities, whether you want to hike the Appalachian Trail or take the family out for a short excursion to a scenic natural feature. DEC maintains hiking trails on many areas of Forest Preserve lands in the Adirondack and Catskill Parks as well as on State Forests, Wildlife Management Areas and Unique Areas. Most trails are marked with color coded disks affixed to trees. Trail guides and maps corresponding to these markers have been developed for many locations. Trail register boxes are generally located near major access points and parking areas. Although most DEC-maintained trails are marked, hikers are encouraged to consult topographical maps or other guides when planning to venture into the backcountry. Information on hiking safety, rules, and etiquette Where to Go Trails Supporter Patch Protect Yourself Hiking trails can be rough and rugged - they are not maintained as park walkways - wear boots or shoes designed for hiking. Wearing sneakers, sandals, or other shoes on trails can be uncomfortable and may result in injuries. Know and plan for the route and terrain that you plan to hike and the conditions you may encounter. Map and compass Flashlight or headlamp Food and water Extra clothing First aid kit Keep together when hiking in groups - always have at least the person in front of you and the person behind you within your sight and all of the group within hearing distance.
Sign in and out of all trail registers that you encounter - for groups only one person
should sign in. Call the DEC Central Dispatch at 518-408-5852, or in the Adirondacks 518-891-0235, to report a lost, injured or stricken hiker or other backcountry emergency. Respect Others Be respectful and courteous towards your fellow adventurers by following trail etiquette: Be courteous of all other users regardless of their sport, speed or skill level. Hike in single file, especially when approaching other hikers. Stay to the right and pass on the left when safe and appropriate. Allow faster hikers to pass by. When coming up from behind politely make them aware of your presence and desire to pass. On narrow trails, yield to oncoming hikers. Hikers going downhill should yield to hikers going uphill. Hikers on foot bridges and bog bridging have the right of way, allow them to complete their crossing before stepping onto the bridge or other structure. Keep pets under control Enjoy and respect wildlife from a distance - do not disturb Park in designated parking areas - do not block gates, entrances, exits or other vehicles. Protect the Lands & Waters Know the rules of the area where you will be hiking. Don't litter - Carry out what you carry in. Do not remove or damage trail markers. Walk through, not around, mud and puddles on trails to avoid further eroding and widening trails. Stay off steep, high elevation trails during the spring mud season. After a hike and before getting into your vehicle shake or brush off clothing and clean boot treads to avoid spreading seeds of invasive species. More about Hiking:
Adirondack Backcountry Information Catskill Backcountry Information Great Winter Hikes Great Autumn Hikes Great Spring Hikes Great Summer Hikes Fire Towers Catskill Hikes Hiking Safety Trail Supporter Patch Animals, Plants, Aquatic Life Chemical and Pollution Control Energy and Climate Lands and Waters Education Permits, Licenses, and Registrations Public Involvement and News Regulations and Enforcement Publications, Forms, Maps About DEC
Important Links Help Maintain a Trail - Volunteer Today! Outdoor Safety State Land Hiking and Camping Rules State Land Use Regulations New Yorks Forest Preserve DEC Campgrounds DEC Environmental Education Centers Places to Go Hiking Trails data for Google Earth
//<![CDATA[
$('#RL_32164 li').each(function(index){
$(this).attr('id', 'relatedLink32164' + (index+1) );
var MediaLink = $(this).find('a').attr('data-document-link');
if(MediaLink != '')
{
$(this).find('a').attr('href', MediaLink);
}
});
//]]>
Links Leaving DEC's Website Catskill Hiking Trail Status & Conditions NYS Parks (OPRHP) USGS Topographic Maps I Love NY New York Trailfinder Leave No Trace Contact for this Page This Page Covers Department of Environmental Conservation Outdoor Activities Animals, Plants, Aquatic Life Chemical and Pollution Control Energy and Climate Lands and Waters Education Permit, License, Registration Public Involvement and News Regulations and Enforcement Publications, Forms, Maps About DEC Employment Events Calendar Regions Divisions Commissioner Freedom of Information Law (FOIL) Doing Business with DEC A-Z Subject Index Contact Us Report a Problem Find a Form Apply for a Grant Privacy Policy Website Usage and Policies Website Accessibility L언어 지원 Èd nan Lang Assistenza Linguistica Языковая поддержка Asistencia de idioma 语言援助
FACEBOOK
TWITTER
YOUTUBE
FLICKR
INSTAGRAM