Navigate with a map and don't rely on your cellphone when you go hiking - The Washington Post
Democracy Dies in Darkness Subscribe Username Sign In Account Profile Newsletters & Alerts Gift Subscriptions Contact Us Help Desk Subscribe Account Profile Newsletters & Alerts Gift Subscriptions Contact Us Help Desk Why it’s a real mistake to count on a cellphone when you go hiking
The inside track on Washington politics.
*Invalid email address (Jonathan Newton / The Washington Post)
Jenny Rough Jenny Rough September 16 at 8:00 AM Sarah Savage was alone in the woods and didn’t know which way to turn. She had been eager to explore the Appalachian Trail when she moved to Pennsylvania and discovered that her house was near an access point. But not long after she took off from the trailhead, the path branched in different directions. She wasn’t carrying a cellphone or a map. Nervous, she turned back. “I was afraid of getting lost. I didn’t know how to read a map or even that maps existed for where I was hiking,” said Savage, 49, who works in educational publishing. But she liked the physical and emotional benefits of being out there, so she kept going back. She brought a map and followed the trail as best she could, yet she still felt apprehensive. “I had no sense of direction,” she said. “I wasn’t paying attention to north, south, east or west.” While a database that Koester created shows 24,000 formal search-and-rescue efforts a year, it’s imprecise, he said, given that many hikers get lost for only a short time. “Many are able to eventually reorient themselves, or are lucky enough to stumble across someone else,” he said. But for some hikers, the wrong turn proves deadly. “The classic behavior when you get lost is to speed up,” said Jamie O’Donnell, a field instructor with the National Outdoor Leadership School, a nonprofit based in Wyoming. “People think, ‘Oh, I need to work hard to get myself out of this.’ In doing that, they often make the situation worse by hiking fast. They quit paying attention to terrain features.” Once you’ve stopped and replenished your body, you can think more clearly. “Then and only then, pull out your map,” Boone said. Although many trail users frequently rely on electronic prompts to provide a sense of direction, a GPS device is not a magic box, O’Donnell said. It’s important to understand its limitations. “The GPS won’t tell you there is a mountain in the way or there is a huge river that won’t be safe to cross, but a map will,” he said. GPS units break. Batteries go dead. Phones get dropped in streams. Also, “turn-by-turn GPS [navigation] in which you see only one route and are always going straight ahead” doesn’t teach people to situate themselves on a route, said Nora Newcombe, a cognitive psychologist at Temple University. “For the Inuit in a traditional lifestyle, it’s a more challenging task due to the relative lack of stable landmarks,” Newcombe said. “Thus, they use other clues such as the prevailing wind direction as shown in the snow.” Visual clues can also help you stay safe and oriented on the trail. Some hikers set their trekking poles outside their tent at night pointing in the direction they’re supposed to go the next morning, Boone said, while others never hike alone. Some go so far as to place their pack on the side of the trail, tie a string to it and carry the string with them when going off to use the bathroom. O’Donnell said that when he is in an area with lots of splits and turns, he’ll draw an arrow in the dirt at each junction in case he needs to backtrack. The arrows serve as a visual record if he gets confused or disoriented. He says he does this rarely, only when he needs to make a series of directional decisions prompted by many forks or other choices. And hikers should always make a plan. “Let someone know you’re going out and when you’ll be back,” said Brian Schachter, an instructor at the Baltimore Chesapeake Bay Outward Bound School. “If you’re not back by that time, they know to contact authorities.” “My concern is that when people get these devices, there’s an excuse to push the envelope because their confidence isn’t in their skills, it’s in their equipment,” Boone said. “I planned it to within an inch of its life,” she said. “I knew where I was starting, where I was ending, and where I was going to camp every single night.” But she still relied on guidebook descriptions to follow her route. “I had no clue about topography or contour lines, so I never ever ventured off well-marked, obvious trails,” she said. When she began hiking out west where trails often vanished above the tree line, she relied on her boyfriend, who knew how to read maps. “He would take the lead and I’d follow him.” Frustrated with that, Savage decided to learn map-and-compass skills herself. “I’m slow at it,” she said of the navigation exercises she practiced in one of Boone’s classes. Savage may not be fast, but when she hiked a section of the Continental Divide Trail alone last year, she stayed the course — with the help of a map. Close video player