American Hiking Society
Our Mission Alliance of Hiking Organizations Corporate Sponsors Media Center AHS Ambassadors Employment Opportunities Hiking and Foot Trail Issues Policy Position Statements Contact Congress Learn More Find An Event Host an Event Host a Trail Crew Find a Volunteer Vacation General Information Helpful Hints Before You Register Crew Leader Information College Alternative Break Hikes Near You Tips for Your Next Hike Families on Foot Grant Opportunities Store Individual Membership Organizational Membership Donate & Support   American Hiking Seeks Director of Policy and Advocacy American Hiking Society seeks a Director of Policy and Advocacy to work with Congress, the Administration, federal agencies, and conservation and recreation partners to shape public policy and legislation affecting hiking. POSITION SUMMARY The Director of Policy and Advocacy has primary … Hiking to the Solar Eclipse Imagine a morning hike for a purpose, for a reason you’ve never hiked before. You start out early, the crisp air an energy shot from nature. Perhaps the birds are acting a little different today, and you sense a … Kid’s Hiking Poem or Prose Contest When we hike with children, we see the world through their eyes. The patterns on the wings of a beetle, towering peaks peeking through swirling clouds, the earthy smell of leaves on a muddy trail. The places we have … AHS Defending Trails in 2018 Budget Battle July 7, 2017 – Today American Hiking Society, in coordination with our partners American Trails, Back Country Horsemen of America, and the Partnership for the National Trails System, submitted a letter to the House and Senate Appropriations Committees and … Giving Back Abroad The journey of 1,000 miles begins with a single step, and it is much further to Torres del Paine, Patagonia. From the San Francisco Bay Area, it requires more than two days of travel to reach this iconic hiking … Executive Order Threatens National Monuments In April, President Donald Trump issued an executive order calling for the review of all national monument designations occurring after January 1, 1996, where the monument exceeds 100,000 acres. Shortly after, the Department of the Interior confirmed that Giant … Sale! Pack of 20 Find Your Trail Temporary Tattoos $ $ National Geographic Appalachian Trail Maps $ Sale! BROOKS-RANGE MOUNTAINEERING HYBRID WOOL JACKET $ $ Hike Logo-ed Wicking T-Shirt $ › Aug Hiking to the Solar Eclipse Imagine a morning hike for a purpose, for a reason you’ve never hiked before. You start out early, the crisp air an energy shot from nature. Perhaps the birds are acting a little different today, and you sense a buzz of something you can’t quite explain. The calendar says … Jul Kid’s Hiking Poem or Prose Contest When we hike with children, we see the world through their eyes. The patterns on the wings of a beetle, towering peaks peeking through swirling clouds, the earthy smell of leaves on a muddy trail. The places we have hiked over and over are suddenly new, vivid, and alive … Jul Executive Order Threatens National Monuments In April, President Donald Trump issued an executive order calling for the review of all national monument designations occurring after January 1, 1996, where the monument exceeds 100,000 acres. Shortly after, the Department of the Interior confirmed that Giant Sequoia National Monument is on that list along with 26 … Jul #HikingMakesMe Interview – Kathryn Van Waes, Ph.D. American Hiking Society’s Executive Director, Kathryn Van Waes, responds to our #HikingMakesMe interview. › Subscribe for eNews Enter your email if you would like to receive monthly email updates from our electronic newsletter, Paperless Trail.
Get Social Keep in Touch Contact Us Advertise Sponsorship Career Privacy Policy