Best Hikes in the San Juan Islands | San Juan Islands Washington Visitors Bureau | Orcas Island | Lopez Island | Friday Harbor | San Juan Island
Search form Home Printed San Juan Islands Map Plan Your Trip Package Tours Leave No Trace Weather Island Books Lopez Island Orcas Island San Juan Island Friday Harbor Olga Lopez Village Eastsound Deer Harbor Roche Harbor Parks & Shorelines Business Services Real Estate Photography Washington State Ferries Airlines & Charters Passenger Ferries From SeaTac Airport Getting Around Marinas Travel by Train or Bus To and From Canada Wheelchair/ADA Access Maps Hotels, Inns & Resorts Bed & Breakfast Inns Camping & Glamping Farm Stays Vacation Houses Vacation Suites Vacation Cabins & Cottages Vacation Rental Companies Pet Friendly Accommodations Lopez Island Experiences Orcas Island Experiences San Juan Island Experiences San Juan Islands Scenic Byway Whale & Wildlife Watching Kayaking Bicycling Hiking Pet-Friendly Activities Wineries, Breweries & Distilleries Food, Farms & Artisan Producers Shopping in the San Juan Islands Spas The Arts History Family & Kids Activities Boating Fishing in the San Juans Search Activity Availability Package Tours Experiences Dining Meeting Venues Summary Major Annual Events Events on Lopez Island Honeymoons Weddings on Lopez Island Weddings on Orcas Island Weddings on San Juan Island Photo Gallery San Juans In the News Contact Search form About the Islands Where to Stay What to Do Island Experience Best Hikes in the San Juan Islands
Whether you want a quiet walk on the beach or a challenging hill climb, you'll find some of the best hiking in Washington State in the San Juan Islands
Walking in a quiet forest of Douglas fir and Western Red Cedar, you find that your cares fall away. In the San Juan Islands, you'll find hiking trails along beautiful rocky bluffs, or driftwood covered beaches, past historic lighthouses and stunning vistas of little islands dotting the Salish Sea. Choose your level of difficulty, from easy walks to challenging climbs in many different landscapes on countless nature preserves and public lands.   Mount Constitution From the summit, you’ll have 360-degree views of the San Juan Islands, Vancouver, and the mainland, bracketed by snow-tipped Mt. Baker and Mt. Rainier. Enjoy an added touch of historical interest in the watchtower, built from hand-cut stone by the Civilian Conservation Corps in 1936. If you have small children or just fancy something less strenuous, there are a multitude of easier hikes farther down the mountain. Or arrange to be dropped off at the top and have someone pick you up at the bottom for a leisurely downhill hike. There is a paved road all the way up Mount Constitution, so consider parking partway up for a leisurely and beautiful three-mile stroll around Mountain Lake—you can even jump in for a cooling swim. Beyond Mountain Lake, trails lead out to Cascade Falls and Twin Lakes. With over 38 miles of trails, 5,200-acre Moran State Park offers something for every fitness level.   Turtleback Mountain For those less inclined to pant up an exposed climb, choose the north ascent. Here, conifer forest and wetlands replace the grasslands and Garry oaks of the south face. Obstruction Pass State Park Orcas Blakely Find maps of more Orcas Island hikes.   Hiking Lovely Lopez Island   Hummel Lake Preserve Located on the south end of Lopez Island’s largest freshwater lake, 80-acre Hummel Lake Preserve boasts beautiful lakefront shoreline, a dock for fishing (but no swimming), and about a mile of trails through a second-growth forest that ends at Port Stanley Road.   Lopez Hill Fuca   Agate Beach Agate Beach is on the southernmost tip of Lopez Island, with an amazing view of the water and Iceberg Point, part of the new San Juan Islands National Monument lands. At low tide, a sandy beach is accessible. Donated to the County by Seth Richey in 1948, the is one of Lopez Island's most beautiful spots.  Shark Reef Sanctuary Don’t miss the Shark Reef Sanctuary on the west side of the island, where a short 10-minute walk through a forest will lead to a rocky shoreline where you’ll get views over the water and an almost certain seal (and perhaps sea lion and otter) sighting—just be sure to follow the path around to the left. Find more maps of Lopez Island hikes.   San Juan Island's Best HIkes   Young Hill The trail rises at a steady gradient, with plenty of places for you to stop, catch your breath, and drink in the views, which get more and more rewarding as you climb. The forest of evergreens, madrones, and oaks thins to a clearing at the summit. You’ll see several varieties of wildflowers in the spring. If you’ve brought lunch, settle down and enjoy some of the best views in the area. You have the world at your feet. Lime Kiln Point State Park The park, which features a richly diverse environment, includes the remnants and landscapes of a history filled with change, along the rocky shoreline and through the wooded uplands. Minke whales, porpoises, seals, sea lions, otters and bald eagles also cruise the shoreline. The lighthouse was built in 1919 and still serves as a navigational beacon for ships in the Haro Strait. Interpretive programs, an interpretive center with gift shop and lighthouse tours are available during the summer months.   South Beach South Beach in American Camp National Historical Park is the longest public beach in the islands, with views over the Strait of Juan de Fuca to the Olympic Mountains. All along this pristine two-mile pebble-and-sand beach, a wide swath of massive driftwood has washed up and been bleached in the sun for decades. A wonderful place to take photos, enjoy a brisk walk for exercise, or a slow stroll for beachcombing, South Beach also has broad golden hills where eagles and hawks reel, rabbits forage and red foxes hunt at sunset, a historic “redoubt” or temporary fortification made during the Pig War conflict between the American and English troops from 1859 to 1871 – a standoff during which no shots were fired. Now, the only flames you’ll see are the summer bonfires at sunset as locals and visitors gather to enjoy this stunning and special place. Jakle's Lagoon & Mount Finlayson At 295 feet, this is not a challenging climb, although a few sections run a little steep. With South Beach, Jakle’s Lagoon, and Fourth of July Beach nearby, this hike fits very well into a day of south-end sightseeing.  From the Jakle’s Lagoon parking lot and trailhead, you can start at either end of the loop trail. Head right on the wide Mount Finlayson Trail, which climbs gradually across golden grasslands lined by wind-blasted, contorted firs paralleling Cattle Point Road. The trail crests on the long ridge of Mount Finlayson, named for one of the founders of Victoria, B.C., which you can see from along the trail. At 1.3 miles a trail leads left, near a group of large firs—your return route. But walk a bit farther for a grand view of Cattle Point Lighthouse. (Watch for eagles, plovers, sandpipers and hawks.) Loop back down into a cool forested ravine to reach a trail junction at Third Lagoon after 0.25 mile. Turn left onto an old woods road, 1.75 miles back to the trailhead. Or at the parking lot, take the wide trail through the cool evergreen forest to the summit, then follow the high, open ridge and hike down the mountain back to the parking lot. From the summit you’ll have spectacular views across Haro and Juan de Fuca Straits to the Olympic Mountains and Vancouver Island.  Watch for whales in these waters. Find more maps for San Juan Island hikes. See All Experiences Download PDF Featured Itinerary Stops Mt. Constitution 3572 Olga Rd. Orcas Island Obstruction Pass State Park Obstruction Pass Rd. Orcas Island Hummel Lake Preserve Hummel Lake Rd. Lopez Island Agate Beach County Park Mackaye Harbor Rd. Lopez Island Shark Reef Sanctuary Shark Reef Rd. Lopez Island Lime Kiln Point State Park 1567 West Side Rd. San Juan Island South Beach American Camp San Juan Island Jakle's Lagoon / Mt. Finlayson Cattle Point Rd. San Juan Island Featured Experience Responsible Wildlife Watching in the San Juans Watch wildlife while respecting and protecting the animals and environment. See Full Experience See more experiences Featured Experience When Do the Whales Swim By? and other Frequently Asked Questions What time to the whales swim by? Where do you go in the winter? Locals answer your frequently asked questions about the San Juan Islands. See Full Experience See more experiences
Sign Up for Our E-Newsletter
Follow Us!
#visitsanjuans
We Are Here to Help!
[email protected] [email protected] 1-888-468-3701 © 2017 San Juan Islands Visitors Bureau Lopez Island Chamber of Commerce Orcas Island Chamber of Commerce San Juan Island Chamber of Commerce Media Travel Trade Inquiries Emergency Services Membership Member Login Find out what's new in the San Juan Islands! Enter your email address for monthly updates.