Closter Nature Center Short Hike | New York-New Jersey Trail Conference
Toggle navigation My Dashboard Search Login Tour Website Volunteer Events Programs Donate Membership Find Hikes and Parks Find a Hiking Club Hiking Resources Shop Partner Discounts Shopping Resources About Us Contact Us FAQ Jobs Resources News Center Trail Alerts Trail Forums Hike Description:
From the nature center building, where parking is available, follow Ruckman Road east for about 600 feet. A short distance beyond the driveway to 190 Ruckman Road, you’ll notice a triple red blaze on a large tree on the north side of the road, adjacent to a sign for the Closter Nature Center. Enter the woods, following the Red Trail, with puncheons (wooden boardwalk) placed over wet areas. turn left and recross the brook on another wooden bridge, following blue blazes. Soon, the Blue Trail turns right to cross Smith Brook, but you should continue ahead on the White Trail, which parallels the brook. When you reach Ruckman Road, turn left along the road for 150 feet, then cross the road to the parking area where the hike began. 11/11/2010 11/29/2015 Closter Nature Center Short Hike Closter Nature Center The Closter Nature Center, a 136-acre forested tract located on Ruckman Road in Closter, offers the opportunity for a short, level hike of about three-fourths of a mile. 40.974985, -73.951566 From the nature center building, where parking is available, follow Ruckman Road east for about 600 feet. A short distance beyond the driveway to 190 Ruckman Road, you’ll notice a triple red blaze on a large tree on the north side of the road, adjacent to a sign for the Closter Nature Center. Enter the woods, following the Red Trail, with puncheons (wooden boardwalk) placed over wet areas.... 0 Prepare For Your Hike Web Map:
Hike Checklist:
Whether you are going for a day hike or backpacking overnight, it is good practice to carry what we call The Hiking Essentials. These essentials will help you enjoy your outing more and will provide basic safety gear if needed. There may also be more essentials, depending on the season and your needs. The Essentials Hiking Shoes or Boots Sunscreen and insect repellent Check the weather forecast before you head out. Know the rules and regulations of the area. The Leave No Trace Seven Principles Plan Ahead and Prepare Know the regulations and special concerns for the area you'll visit. Prepare for extreme weather, hazards, and emergencies. Schedule your trip to avoid times of high use. Visit in small groups when possible. Consider splitting larger groups into smaller groups. Repackage food to minimize waste. Use a map and compass to eliminate the use of marking paint, rock cairns or flagging. Travel and Camp on Durable Surfaces Durable surfaces include established trails and campsites, rock, gravel, dry grasses or snow. Protect riparian areas by camping at least 200 feet from lakes and streams. Good campsites are found, not made. Altering a site is not necessary. In popular areas: Concentrate use on existing trails and campsites. Walk single file in the middle of the trail, even when wet or muddy. Keep campsites small. Focus activity in areas where vegetation is absent. In pristine areas: Disperse use to prevent the creation of campsites and trails. Avoid places where impacts are just beginning. Dispose of Waste Properly Pack it in, pack it out. Inspect your campsite and rest areas for trash or spilled foods. Pack out all trash, leftover food and litter. Deposit solid human waste in catholes dug 6 to 8 inches deep, at least 200 feet from water, camp and trails. Cover and disguise the cathole when finished. Pack out toilet paper and hygiene products. To wash yourself or your dishes, carry water 200 feet away from streams or lakes and use small amounts of biodegradable soap. Scatter strained dishwater. Leave What You Find Preserve the past: examine, but do not touch cultural or historic structures and artifacts. Leave rocks, plants and other natural objects as you find them. Avoid introducing or transporting non-native species. Do not build structures, furniture, or dig trenches. Minimize Campfire Impacts Campfires can cause lasting impacts to the backcountry. Use a lightweight stove for cooking and enjoy a candle lantern for light. Where fires are permitted, use established fire rings, fire pans, or mound fires. Keep fires small. Only use sticks from the ground that can be broken by hand. Burn all wood and coals to ash, put out campfires completely, then scatter cool ashes. Respect Wildlife Observe wildlife from a distance. Do not follow or approach them. Never feed animals. Feeding wildlife damages their health, alters natural behaviors, and exposes them to predators and other dangers. Protect wildlife and your food by storing rations and trash securely. Control pets at all times, or leave them at home. Avoid wildlife during sensitive times: mating, nesting, raising young, or winter. Be Considerate of Other Visitors Respect other visitors and protect the quality of their experience. Be courteous. Yield to other users on the trail. Step to the downhill side of the trail when encountering pack stock. Take breaks and camp away from trails and other visitors. Let nature's sounds prevail. Avoid loud voices and noises. The Trail Conference is a 2015 Leave No Trace partner. Let's Go Directions to Trailhead :
Closter Nature Center is located at 154 Ruckman Road, Closter, NJ 07624.  From Route 9W in Alpine, proceed west on Closter Dock Road for 2.7 miles to Oakland Avenue. Turn right onto Oakland Avenue, which merges into Ruckman Road in about 0.1 mile. Continue on Ruckman Road for another 0.2 mile to the parking lot for the Nature Center, on the right.  TRAIN TRANSPORT : BUS TRANSPORT : Share Your Experience Trip Reports Trail News Rehabilitating the Trails of the Ramapo Mountains Hard Labor Is Thoughtful Labor Urgent Call to Protect the Long Path and Highlands Trail More News Find Your Next Hike with Our Interactive Map Celebrate the 101st Anniversary of the National Park Service Trail Conference Headquarters Gone Wild(Flowers) Upcoming Events Wildflowers Art Exhibit: June 2 - Sept. 28 | Trail Conference Headquarters Call for Entries: Hiker, Who Are You? Portraits of the Trail | Trail Conference Headquarters Floworks Trail Crew - Trail Building | Sterling Forest State Park - South Gate Lot Volunteer Donate $ 40.00 $ 100.00 $ 250.00 Quick Links Login/Register E-News Signup Search form