Flat Rock Brook Nature Center - 96 Photos & 14 Reviews - Hiking - 443 Van Nostrand Ave, Englewood, NJ - Phone Number - Yelp
qqqqfra Find Near Search Oops, we can't find your location You're good to go! Reload this Yelp page and try your search again. You're good to go! Reload this Yelp page and try your search again. MacOS may now prompt you to enable Location Services. If it does, follow its instructions to enable Location Services for Safari. Close the Privacy menu and refresh the page. Try using Current Location search again. If it works, great! If not, read on for more instructions. You're good to go! Close the Settings tab, reload this Yelp page, and try your search again. You're good to go! Refresh this Yelp page and try your search again.
You can also search near a city, place, or address instead.
You're good to go! Refresh this Yelp page and try your search again.
You can also search near a city, place, or address instead.
Oops! We don't recognize the web browser you're currently using. Try checking the browser's help menu, or searching the Web for instructions to turn on HTML5 Geolocation for your browser.
You can also search near a city, place, or address instead.
Air Conditioning & Heating
Contractors
Electricians
Home Cleaners
Landscapers
Locksmiths
Movers
Painters
Plumbers
14 443 Van Nostrand Ave Englewood NJ 07631
(201) 567-1265
I have bookmarked a ton of places since moving here that I want to hike at or experience and this one was close to where I live.
Parking was simple. No charge to get in. Not a ton of people.
This park was really nice. They have plaques with information on each area and what type of habitat it is and what animals you can find in each section. We hiked the trails just after it had rained and I brought all 3 of my kids (14,5 and 2!) and it did get muddy but they have wooden pieces across most of the muddy areas so it wasn't too bad.
We saw a baby deer!! We saw bullfrogs, chipmunks and tons of birds. My kids had a blast and this was fairly easy for them to hike without problems. I want to come back with just my older son and stay longer. Def worth checking out!
Being outside is always better than inside.
Very nice getaway and you can easily go through all the trails in one day. I was going it alone today so this place was a great choice because it's not so secluded and there were enough people on the trails to make me feel comfortable.
The hike was beautiful. It is one long trail that connects water and trees so you get a little bit of both scenery. The park is clean and dog friendly. There are benches and people bbqing but there is a lot of room to move around so it's never overly crowded.
Whenever I get a chance, I am either on the hunt for a new restaurant, going to the theatre, or hiking. Flat Rock Brook is a far cry from some of the hikes that I've conquered, but it is a beautiful escape minutes from Fort Lee, NJ offering nature lovers a chance to relax and detox from the everyday hustle and bustle. The park offers seven (7) clearly marked trails approximately 4 miles in total with some hills and steps but mostly flat an slight inclines. Follow the trails to
Macfadden's Wetlands and the Mystery Bridge to get beautiful views of snapping turtles, painted turtles, bullfrogs, fish, birds, and deer. Oh, did I mention that you'll find the largest population of chipmunks ever! It's a great place for family fun with a wonderful playground, nature center, and picnic areas. Enjoy!
Nice little park hidden in the Englewood/Englewood Cliffs/Fort Lee area. Given the relatively small size of the park, you will find yourself walking the same route most visits. They have slowly been improving the trail quality and removing fallen trees/branches over the years.
akiva r.
we went on a bunch of the trails and they were all great. they were all well taken care of and even though we went right after heavy rain they weren't very muddy. got to see a bunch of deer, chipmunks, and interesting birds. the nature center building was also interesting with some turtles and other items of interest. we went with children of various ages and there was something for everyone here.
After reading Last Child in the Woods by Richard Louv I've been on more of a nature kick than normal. Growing up I basically lived outside. Now raising a little girl in NYC it seems this would be a challenge. It's actually not, we spend most of our days outside, but finding babbling brooks and catching minnows is something we've been missing...until yesterday.
Flat Rock Brook Nature Center, located in Englewood, NJ, is just a short drive over the George Washington Bridge. It's a well maintained 150-acre forest preserve with 3.6 miles of trails, a babbling brook filled with minnows and turtles and woods full of birds and chipmunks. My boyfriend and I made this adventure with our 4 year old daughter during a heat wave. It ended up being the perfect reprieve from the heat and allowed us to be outdoors rather than chilling in the air conditioning with the TV, like we are today :).
It's easy to navigate to the main nature center where you can pick up trail maps, use their bathrooms and learn more about the preserve. This nature center feels like it's situated within a suburb, but this area is actually part of the western slope of the Palisades. We ended up driving to a side parking area on Jones Road which allowed us to park just steps from the brook and playground, where we spent most of our time. This area also has bathrooms and trail maps where you can choose from 3.6 miles of different self-guided trails. We enjoyed the crystal clear stream, saw turtles, various bird, wildflowers and tons of chipmunks. We also saw an egret and some other kind of bird catching fish from the brook, right in front of us! We spent most of our time trying to catch minnows and playing in the stream but we also enjoyed the playground which was fun and had an interesting ropes area. We spent only a short time exploring the trails, which I'd like to go back and hike further.
When a friend told me about Flat Rock I was excited to check it out. It exceeded my expectations and I can't wait to return. Next time I want to explore some of the seven hiking paths which are mostly flat and easy to navigate. This area is perfect for families. It may not be challenging enough for the avid hiker but there is ample nature and wildlife to satisfy most anyone.
Tips:
There are two parking areas, the main Nature Center, or a smaller one off Jones Road. The Jones Road one takes you straight to the playground.
If you want to play in the brook and catch minnows bring a net, bathing suit, water shoes and a towel.
No dogs allowed.
There are picnic tables but no grills allowed.
No biking on the trails.
The water is crystal clear and the park is well maintained.
There are many educational and camp opportunities for all ages, check out their site if interested in this.
This drive is about 5 minutes of the GWB.
Bring insect repellent.
For more family fun ideas check out:
www.FamilyRoadTraveled.com
I love this place so much! I come here a lot as I am lucky enough to leave just a few minutes away. The trails are nice, the park is peaceful. I love the stream and pond. They sometimes have maps there but you don't really need them. Park is clean and naturally beautiful. The nature center building is cute and informative. Also in the garden section they have a recycle area and injured birds and owls that have been saved. Josephine the big owl is beautiful. Highly recommend to go here. Its a nice getaway, safe, clean, and peaceful. Get to see lots of beautiful deer! Families of deers at times. Gets a bit packed on weekends but not overly crowded.
I have never in my life so quickly fallen in love with a place as I have with Flat Rock Brook. I found this place on a whim while taking my customary Sunday morning drive after work. (I work the graveyard shift.) Having always seen it on my GPS, I made it a mission to find it and go on a quick hike.
I found it at the dead end of Van Nostrand Ave in Englewood; a gravel pit parking area complete with a small gazebo picnic area next to the pond and small boardwalk with it's own aviary and garden and an actual "Nature Center," which was closed, that may be used as a classroom for field trip students or perhaps as an educational museum-style building. I thought that this area was beautiful in itself so I couldn't wait to see the trails.
Maps were available at the beginning of the trails and, to prevent waste, they ask that one map be taken per group. The map consisted of the trails and different areas available throughout the park as well as park rules but I barely gave it a glance as I was off onto the Red Loop trail as quick as my feet could take me. It's their longest trail, (approx. 1mi.) but it's the one trail that intersects with all the other ones. Rugged terrain on most parts and narrow on others, my "quick hike" instantly upgraded to a light workout which put a BIG smile on my face! It's truly wonderful to find an actual hiking trail that can provide a bit of a challenge.
Moreover, the park, for lack of a better title, is filled with a variety of animals here and there. I've never seen so many chipmunks! Either that or the same one was following me around. Perhaps my most astounding find though was the deer sighting; two does, on the very trail right in front of me, just looked up at me as if they were saying hello to their neighbor and continued meandering into the flora and fauna nibbling here and there on a few leaves off of a low hanging branch. I was in pure awe! It's everything one could ask for out of a nature experience.
Perhaps the only downside is that they don't allow dogs. I know many a dog lover, myself included, that love walking trails with their doggy companions. However, after seeing how much animal activity there is in this park, I'm starting to see the reason behind the rule. Even if I didn't, it wouldn't be enough for me to give this place anything less than 5 stars. I cannot wait to go back!
This place is a Beautiful blip of nature in the middle of suburbia! I have driven past the picnic area section off Jones Road for years and I was always curious what the trails were like/how far back they actually went.
I decided my run needed a change of scenery one day so I went exploring the Flat Rock Brook Nature Center. The first thing a passerby notices are the huge signs forbidding dogs: this is actually brilliant! There aren't maps of the trails readily available at the picnic area entrance of the park, so i just let my legs do the work and i followed any trail maker on a whim. Thankfully, i wasn't worried or distracted about the possibility of stepping in anything undesirable!
The first orange trail was a tiny loop, which was a great warm up, but i found myself back where i started pretty quickly. Then i looked at one of the stationary maps (they are dirty and weathered and very difficult to read) and saw that the red and white trails appeared to go all the way up, so i decided to keep up the exploration. I am glad i did!
The trails are well maintained but can be narrow at times. I ran into several groups of school children, as I was there during a sporadic
"sick" day in the spring. I eventually came to the actual Nature Center, nestled towards the top of the park. There was a building there with restrooms and what I would presume to be an educational indoor
space and administrative offices. It was a nice place to take a bathroom break and stretch in the sun.
Overall, this is a great spot for a morning walk or
family hike or a first date. I did not see any other runners, and i know sometimes runners can be annoying for normal-paced people.
Nice place to hike, but not too much to take in. There were some wildlife like turtles there which was a plus. I think there are a few trails about 1 mile each. It was very clean and trails were maintained well.
This is a great place to take a hike and enjoy nature.
I love these wonderful trails. They're great for a small hike on a Saturday or Sunday.
This is an awesome place for an enthused hiker. There are several beautiful paths that can be followed. The entrance has a nice pond. If you find an area with a actual large flat rock over looking a lake, that is my favorite place to sit and hang out there. I love it here and need to go back once it gets nice out.
Great for kids! It could be a little bigger but the environment is diverse and pretty. Different sized trails and various lakes and streams. I in fact swam their in a deeper part of the stream when I was a child hahahha. I recommend this place.
Flat Rock Brook Nature Center
This business has not yet been claimed by the owner or a representative.
14 reviews
, Opens a popup Rating details , Opens a popup Edit category Share , Opens a popup Bookmark , Opens a popup
Get directions Flat Rock Brook Nature Center Get directions Edit Phone number
(201) 567-1265
Active Life Hiking Ask the Community
×
Yelp Sort Yelp Sort Newest First Oldest First Highest Rated Lowest Rated Elites English (14) English (14)
5/29/2017
Useful 1 Funny Cool Others will see how you vote! Yes, Let Me Vote!
9/16/2017
Very nice getaway and you can easily go through all the trails in one day. I was going it alone today so this place was a great choice because it's not so secluded and there were enough people on the trails to make me feel comfortable. Lol face tree
Was this review …?
Useful Funny Cool Others will see how you vote! Yes, Let Me Vote!
9/2/2017
The hike was beautiful. It is one long trail that connects water and trees so you get a little bit of both scenery. The park is clean and dog friendly. There are benches and people bbqing but there is a lot of room to move around so it's never overly crowded. Photos from our beautiful hike!
Was this review …?
Useful Funny Cool Others will see how you vote! Yes, Let Me Vote!
7/13/2016
Whenever I get a chance, I am either on the hunt for a new restaurant, going to the theatre, or hiking. Flat Rock Brook is a far cry from some of the hikes that I've conquered, but it is a beautiful escape minutes from Fort Lee, NJ offering nature lovers a chance to relax and detox from the everyday hustle and bustle. The park offers seven (7) clearly marked trails approximately 4 miles in total with some hills and steps but mostly flat an slight inclines. Follow the trails to  Macfadden's Wetlands and the Mystery Bridge to get beautiful views of snapping turtles, painted turtles, bullfrogs, fish, birds, and deer. Oh, did I mention that you'll find the largest population of chipmunks ever! It's a great place for family fun with a wonderful playground, nature center, and picnic areas. Enjoy! Bluejay
2 people voted for this review
Useful 2 Funny Cool 1 Others will see how you vote! Yes, Let Me Vote!
6/5/2017
Nice little park hidden in the Englewood/Englewood Cliffs/Fort Lee area. Given the relatively small size of the park, you will find yourself walking the same route most visits. They have slowly been improving the trail quality and removing fallen trees/branches over the years.
Was this review …?
Useful Funny Cool Others will see how you vote! Yes, Let Me Vote!
7/24/2017
Was this review …?
Useful Funny Cool Others will see how you vote! Yes, Let Me Vote!
7/24/2016
Flat Rock Brook Nature Center www.FamilyRoadTraveled.com Flat Rock Brook Nature Center www.FamilyRoadTraveled.com Flat Rock Brook Nature Center www.FamilyRoadTraveled.com
1 person voted for this review
Useful 1 Funny Cool Others will see how you vote! Yes, Let Me Vote!
8/10/2016
I love this place so much! I come here a lot as I am lucky enough to leave just a few minutes away. The trails are nice, the park is peaceful. I love the stream and pond. They sometimes have maps there but you don't really need them. Park is clean and naturally beautiful. The nature center building is cute and informative. Also in the garden section they have a recycle area and injured birds and owls that have been saved. Josephine the big owl is beautiful. Highly recommend to go here. Its a nice getaway, safe, clean, and peaceful. Get to see lots of beautiful deer! Families of deers at times. Gets a bit packed on weekends but not overly crowded.
Was this review …?
Useful Funny Cool Others will see how you vote! Yes, Let Me Vote!
7/7/2014
15 people voted for this review
Useful 12 Funny 3 Cool 7 Others will see how you vote! Yes, Let Me Vote!
5/29/2014
3 people voted for this review
Useful 2 Funny Cool 2 Others will see how you vote! Yes, Let Me Vote!
9/9/2012
Nice place to hike, but not too much to take in. There were some wildlife like turtles there which was a plus. I think there are a few trails about 1 mile each. It was very clean and trails were maintained well.  This is a great place to take a hike and enjoy nature.
6 people voted for this review
Useful 4 Funny Cool 3 Others will see how you vote! Yes, Let Me Vote!
10/16/2012
I love these wonderful trails. They're great for a small hike on a Saturday or Sunday.
3 people voted for this review
Useful 2 Funny Cool 1 Others will see how you vote! Yes, Let Me Vote!
3/1/2009
This is an awesome place for an enthused hiker. There are several beautiful paths that can be followed. The entrance has a nice pond. If you find an area with a actual large flat rock over looking a lake, that is my favorite place to sit and hang out there. I love it here and need to go back once it gets nice out.
4 people voted for this review
Useful 3 Funny Cool 2 Others will see how you vote! Yes, Let Me Vote!
10/15/2011
Great for kids! It could be a little bigger but the environment is diverse and pretty. Different sized trails and various lakes and streams. I in fact swam their in a deeper part of the stream when I was a child hahahha. I recommend this place.
2 people voted for this review
Useful 1 Funny Cool 1 Others will see how you vote! Yes, Let Me Vote! Business info summary
Hours
More business info People also viewed Palisades Interstate Park Commission
59 reviews
Old Croton Aqueduct State Historic Park
15 reviews
Eagle Rock Reservation
46 reviews
Other Hiking Nearby
Find more Hiking near Flat Rock Brook Nature Center
Browse nearby Restaurants Nightlife Shopping Show all Work at Flat Rock Brook Nature Center? Claim your business Claim your free business page to have your changes published immediately. People found Flat Rock Brook Nature Center by searching for… Rating Details 2017 Yelping since 2009 with 14 reviews 10 4
0
0
0 Text to Phone Flat Rock Brook Nature Center 14 Text Link About Discover Yelp for Business Owners Languages
Bahasa Malaysia (Malaysia)
Čeština (Česká republika)
Dansk (Danmark)
Deutsch (Deutschland)
Deutsch (Schweiz)
Deutsch (Österreich)
English (Australia)
English (Belgium)
English (Canada)
English (Hong Kong)
English (Malaysia)
English (New Zealand)
English (Philippines)
English (Republic of Ireland)
English (Singapore)
English (Switzerland)
English (United Kingdom)
English (United States)
Español (Argentina)
Español (Chile)
Español (España)
Español (México)
Filipino (Pilipinas)
Français (Belgique)
Français (Canada)
Français (France)
Français (Suisse)
Italiano (Italia)
Italiano (Svizzera)
Nederlands (België)
Nederlands (Nederland)
Norsk (Norge)
Polski (Polska)
Português (Brasil)
Português (Portugal)
Suomi (Suomi)
Svenska (Finland)
Svenska (Sverige)
Türkçe (Türkiye)
日本語 (日本)
繁體中文 (台灣)
繁體中文 (香港)
Countries
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Belgium
Brazil
Canada
Chile
Czech Republic
Denmark
Finland
France
Germany
Hong Kong
Italy
Japan
Malaysia
Mexico
New Zealand
Norway
Philippines
Poland
Portugal
Republic of Ireland
Singapore
Spain
Sweden
Switzerland
Taiwan
The Netherlands
Turkey
United Kingdom
United States
Site Map Atlanta Austin Boston Chicago Dallas Denver Detroit Honolulu Houston Los Angeles Miami Minneapolis New York Philadelphia Portland Sacramento San Diego San Francisco San Jose Seattle Washington, DC More Cities