Hiking | Palisades Interstate Park in New Jersey
HOME Album Contact Allison Park Alpine Picnic Area & Boat Basin (Alpine Grove, Alpine Pavilion) Carpenter's Grove Englewood Picnic Area & Boat Basin Fort Lee Historic Park Greenbrook Sanctuary Hazard's Ramp (boat trailers) Park Headquarters Ross Dock Picnic Area State Line Lookout Undercliff Picnic Area Employment Emailing List Geology & Ecology History Maps Palisades Interstate Park Commission Regulations Visitor Letter (“Cliff Notes”) Boating & Paddling Cycling Fishing & Crabbing Picnics & Barbecues Skiing Allison Park Alpine Boat Basin Englewood Boat Basin Hazard's Ramp Greenbrook Sanctuary Fort Lee Historic Park The Kearney House The Women's Federation Monument Maps Park Headquarters Alpine Picnic Area (Alpine Grove, Alpine Pavilion) Englewood Picnic Area Ross Dock Picnic Area (Carpenter's Grove) Undercliff Picnic Area Picnic Area FAQs Henry Hudson Drive Old Route 9W Palisades Interstate Parkway "Palisades Scenic Byway" State Line Lookout Trails F.V.I. (For our Visitor’s Information) Guided Hikes & Walks Illustrated Talks "Living History" at Fort Lee State Line Hawk Watch Memorial Bench Program Special Events Volunteering Guided Hikes “Hudson River Barn Dance” “Hawks Over the Hudson” Fall “tavern” events at the Kearney House “Beaver Moon Beach Fire” Alpine Grove Alpine Pavilion Carpenter's Grove Group Picnic Special Event Bus Wedding Photo Photography & Filming Parking Passes Boat Ramp Pass Alpine Boat Basin Slip Rental POLICE COURT The NJ Palisades Guide app is
available for
iPhone & Android! Park Maps Open / Closed in the Park: Snack Shack open
10 AM – 4 PM, Tue to Fri | 10 AM – 6 PM, Sat & Sun | closed Mon. 201-768-6001 Always tell someone where you’re going and when you expect to be back. This is just good hiking sense, no matter where you go. Wear sturdy, comfortable shoes that are not brand new. Ankle support is crucial, especially on the Giant Stairs. Shoes not broken in will likely cause blisters. Bring plenty of water — and drink it as you go. Some basic first aid supplies are always a good idea, too, as are some snacks. Dress or pack for all possible weather conditions predicted for that day. Layers are the wisest way to dress for the outdoors — you can add or remove as you go. We also recommend long-sleeved clothing, even in warmer weather. Poison ivy thrives on the Palisades. Ticks are common. Long clothing with a spray of repellent at the cuffs is your best defense. Your dog is welcome to enjoy our trails with you, but must be kept on a leash at all times. Please clean up after your pet. The steepness and erodibility of our trails make them unsuitable for cycling. EASY MODERATE CHALLENGING Moderate Challenging Moderate Easy easy Moderate Moderate Challenging, with a difficult rock scramble Easy Top of page
Links to pages outside the njpalisades.org domain are provided when we think such pages will be of interest to visitors and friends of the Palisades Interstate Park in New Jersey. We cannot verify the accuracy of information or be responsible for the quality of content displayed on pages with URLs outside the njpalisades.org domain. Police emergency: 201-768-6001 mail@njpalisades.org Top of page