Moab, Utah Official Tourist Information - Get up-to-date vacation planning information from the official tourism source for the city of Moab.
Arts in Moab Arches National Park Canyonlands National Park Colorado River Dead Horse Point State Park Dinosaur Museums & Hikes La Sal Mountains & the Loop Road Movie Sites Museums Rock Art Sites Slickrock Bike Trail/Sand Flats Rec Area Scenic Byways Wineries 4 Wheeling ATV Riding Ballooning Bird Watching City Recreation Family Activities Fishing Golfing Guides & Outfitters Hiking Horseback Riding Motorcycle Road Touring Motorcycle Trail Riding Mountain Biking Nightlife Outside of the National Parks Photography River Activities Road Biking Rock Climbing and Canyoneering Scenic Flights Skydiving Winter Activities Bed & Breakfasts Campgrounds Condos Guest Houses Hotels & Motels Property Management Resorts Brochure Rack Calendar of Events Churches Equipment Rentals Free Travel Guide Frequently Asked Questions Guides & Outfitters Moab Canyon Pathway Moab Maps & Location Info Pet Information Recycling Restaurants RV Dump Stations Shower Facilities Sun/Moon Rise/Set Video Visitor Center Weather Weddings 4WD Rentals Airline Service ATV/Dirt Bike/Motorcycle Rentals Shuttle & Taxi Service Vehicle Rentals Moab Area Hiking Trails The Moab area contains a large number of pet friendly trails on the public lands surrounding our national parks.
From cool stream-side hikes to spectacular sandstone arches, the Moab area is full of exciting day-hikes suitable for the entire family.
What follows is just a taste of what Moab has to offer.
Amphitheater Loop
Corona Arch Trail Follow the trail and cairns over a low sandy pass and then down towards
the base of a large cliffs. Continue along the base of the cliff to the
first safety cable and around to the second cable where steps have been
cut into the slickrock. Corona Arch is visible from this point. From the
top of the second cable climb up over a short ledge and follow the cairns
up to the top of the large bench. From this point, it is an easy walk along
the broad slickrock bench to the base of Corona Arch.
Dellenbaugh Tunnel Fisher Towers Trail The Fisher Towers are composed of Moenkopi and Cutler sandstones, and
have eroded into many fantastical shapes. Climbers occasionally scale these
mudstone towers (be cautious of hiking directly below a climber!). Note: This trail has a western exposure and can be exceptionally hot on
summer afternoons. Mountain bikes are not allowed on this trail. Grandstaff Canyon Hidden
Valley Trail NOTE: During the late afternoon, in the summer, this trail is largely
in the shade of higher cliffs.
Hunter Canyon Ken’s Lake Trails
Longbow Arch Trail Moab Rim Trail Poison Spider Bench
Portal Overlook Trail Note: During late afternoons in the summer, this trail is largely in the
shade of higher cliffs.
Sylvester
Trough Springs Trail
Detailed Maps Info Center GPS Address & Coordinates:   Mail Order Stay Cool! Pet Friendly Trails Pets are allowed on all of the hikes on this page. Please note that Grand
County "Animal
Care and Control" code does apply:
All dogs must be
kept under restraint.
No owner shall fail to exercise proper care and control of his or
her animals to prevent them from becoming a public nuisance. Essential Equipment Checklist Food
Day pack
Coat and/or gear
Canyoneering © 2017
Moab Area Travel Council - All Rights Reserved