Santa Barbara Hiking Trails and Scenic Vistas | Visit Santa Barbara
Visit Santa Barbara The American Riviera Explore & Discover Itineraries SB Lifestyle Itineraries SB Lifestyle Itineraries Arts & Culture Itineraries Arts & Culture Itineraries Food & Drink Itineraries Food & Drink Itineraries Outdoor & Active Itineraries Outdoor & Active Itineraries Wine Itineraries Wine Itineraries Next Month in Santa Barbara Next Month in Santa Barbara sb. Snapshots sb. Snapshots Neighborhoods & Towns Santa Barbara Santa Barbara Goleta Goleta Montecito Montecito Summerland Summerland Beyond the South Coast Beyond the South Coast History of Santa Barbara History of Santa Barbara Plan Calendar of Events Calendar of Events Special Offers Special Offers Outdoor Recreation Golf Courses Golf Courses Hiking Hiking Biking Biking Kayaking Kayaking Surfing & SUP Surfing & SUP Fishing Fishing Horseback Riding Horseback Riding Polo Polo Whale Watching Whale Watching Sailing Sailing Adventure Sports Adventure Sports Lessons & Tours Lessons & Tours Beaches & Parks Beaches Beaches Parks Parks The Channel Islands The Channel Islands Wine Wineries Wineries Wine Tasting Rooms Wine Tasting Rooms Wine Shops Wine Shops Wine Tours Wine Tours Wine Festivals Wine Festivals Food & Drink Restaurants Restaurants Bars & Lounges Bars & Lounges Gourmet Shops & Markets Gourmet Shops & Markets Craft Breweries Craft Breweries Farm Stands & U-Pick Farm Stands & U-Pick Classes & Tours Classes & Tours Shopping Shopping Arts & Culture Art Galleries Art Galleries Museums Museums Historic Landmarks Historic Landmarks Gardens Gardens Zoo & Aquarium Zoo & Aquarium Theaters & Performing Arts Theaters & Performing Arts Music Venues Music Venues Classes & Tours Classes & Tours Spa & Wellness Yoga Yoga Spas Spas Know Before You Go Transportation Transportation International Travelers International Travelers Pet Friendly Pet Friendly Visitor’s Center Visitor’s Center Santa Barbara Weather Santa Barbara Weather Visitors Magazine & Enewsletter Visitors Magazine & Enewsletter Stay Camping & RV Parks Camping & RV Parks Hotels and Motels Hotels and Motels Resorts & Spas Resorts & Spas Neighborhood Inns Neighborhood Inns Vacation Rentals Vacation Rentals
Search
Search X Meetings Travel Trade Media Hiking Throw the necessities in your backpack and hit the trail because the view is about to get incredible when hiking in Santa Barbara. #SeeSB Find All Hiking Santa Barbara hiking trails offer outdoor lovers plenty of options for terrain and scenery. The Santa Ynez Mountain range is one of only two in the world that runs east to west, eventually spilling into the ocean on the breathtaking Gaviota Coast. So throw the necessities in your backpack and hit the trail because the view is about to get incredible. Santa Barbara Hiking Trails Choose from several trails that wind along flowing creeks shaded by California bay, sycamore and oak tree forests before you eventually peak out above the canopy where chaparral-choked mountainsides sweep across the entire range. Catch sight of Santa Barbara’s red tile roofs, white sand beaches, and the Pacific beyond it with breathtaking, panoramic views. Hiking in the Santa Ynez Mountains Those who reach the top of the Santa Ynez Mountains are rewarded with more stunning views to the east and northeast showing off Santa Barbara’s backcountry and the vast Los Padres National Forest. Some of the trails that lead to the spine of the range include Tunnel, Cold Springs, San Ysidro and Romero Canyon. This rugged wilderness is fortified in sandstone and inviting trails that lead all the way to New Cuyama. The backcountry is a backpacker’s dream where lonely trails lead to remote campsites, solitude and discovery, a piece of Santa Barbara experienced by just a few. Channel Islands Hiking
Featured Hiking in Santa Barbara Truth Aquatics, Inc. SCUBA DIVING: From single day dives to multi-day expeditions, Truth Aquatics is the #1 provider of Channel Islands diving. The best liveaboard dive fleet on the west coast, Truth Aquatics leads dive excursions to the giant kelp forests and rocky… Santa Barbara Botanic Garden Explore California’s unique natural landscape at the Santa Barbara Botanic Garden, a magnificent, 78-acre living museum designed completely with California-native plants. Five miles of easy walking trails crisscross the wild-crafted gardens, so… Santa Barbara Adventure Company See a part of Santa Barbara few visitors ever get to experience with the best outfitter in town. Our guides create thousands of unforgettable travel adventures each year – come join us! Channel Islands National Park - Sea Cave… We Recommend The 8 Best Hikes in SB sb. Snapshots: A Visual Exploration of Santa Barbara Hiking Adventures For an advanced, but scenic, Santa Barbara hike, head to the hills for Gibraltar Trail.
Photo Credit: Instagram @anoblevision Share This Photo Lizard's Mouth For this hike, breathtaking views are just the start. Pack a picnic or go rock climbing, and simply let the beauty surround you.
Photo Credit: Instagram @drastik805 Share This Photo Hiking Cathedral Peak Boulder hop in Cathedral Park to reach city views atop Santa Barbara Photo Credit: Instagram Fan @jlova_rn Share This Photo Swing at Potter's Point Rock climbers are treated to a scenic resting spot with this swing at Potter's Point.
Photo Credit: Instagram Fan @andrew.townsend of @thesaltybrunette Share This Photo Point Conception One of the earliest California lighthouses is located along the Santa Barbara Channel.
Photo Credit: Instagram Fan @drastik805 Share This Photo Breathtaking Views Explore the front side of the Santa Ynez mountains overlooking Santa Barbara. Photo Credit: Instagram Fan @SBFittours Share This Photo Health & Wellness 	Get in the Santa Barbara mindset and fall in love with taking care of your body, mind and spirit . Photo Credit: Instagram Fan @clairespiration Share This Photo Lastly, Don't Miss Find Us Elsewhere Online 500 E. Montecito Street Santa Barbara, CA 93103 Phone (805) 966-9222 Privacy Policy Meetings 500 E. Montecito Street Santa Barbara, CA 93103 Phone (805) 966-9222 Privacy Policy