Hiking in Squamish, BC | Tourism Squamish
Tourism Squamish Main Website Sections Tourism Squamish Logo Explore Stay Eat + Drink Events Plan Blog Trails 9°C / 48°F Book Your Visit Current Weather & Forecast Current Weather 9 48 Forecast 14 57 13 55 11 52 High & Low Tide 10:00am 05:07pm Wind Speed / Direction 3 NNE Julie Zoney Hiking Take a hike. Squamish is well-known for its rock climbing, kayaking, mountain biking, kite surfing and more, but surprisingly it's the hiking in Squamish that is often overlooked. Fall in love with Squamish on foot through one of its many hiking trails that will take you on trips along rivers, lakes, ancient rainforests and vast mountainous terrain. Squamish has some truly spectacular hikes for all levels and abilities and offers everything from small half-day trips to multi-day backpacking adventures, all accessible within a 10 minutes.  Remember that hiking is often in remote places where even a small injury can turn into a rescue epic. There is wildlife, and inherent risk associated with tramping through the woods. Please keep this in mind and be mindful of your surroundings. Bring extra food, water and clothing as weather and conditions in the mountains can change instantly. Finally, pack out what you pack in to help keep our area clean.  View More Trails Trails In Squamish Squamish has a trail system that is envied around the world. Our network of trails is used by walkers, hikers, mountain bikers, horseback riders, trials riders and dirt bikers. Explore some of our most popular trails as well as some of our lesser-known gems. See Also Mountain Skills Academy & Adventures Sea to Sky Adventure Company Sea to Sky Gondola Valhalla Pure Escape Route Squamish Integrated Health West Coast Wonders Squamish Photo Tours Helpful Links Internal & External Links
The Stawamus Chief
4 Lakes Trail
Brohm Lake Interpretive Trail
Elfin Lakes / Garibaldi Park
Oceanfront Interpretive Trail Additional Trail Descriptions Related Articles Stawamus Chief Hiking Trails Towering 702 metres above Squamish is the Stawamus Chief. Known locally as the Chief, this massive cliff face is one of North America's largest granite monoliths. It’s also home to one of the most classic hikes in the Sea to Sky Corridor. Garibaldi Provincial Park The 194,650-hectare Garibaldi Provincial Park offers an abundance of year-round recreation and an easy access point at the north end of Squamish. Trails In Squamish Squamish has a trail system that is envied around the world. Our network of trails is used by walkers, hikers, mountain bikers, horseback riders, trials riders and dirt bikers. Explore some of our most popular trails as well as some of our lesser-known gems. Social Sharing Stay Up-To-Date. Join our Community! Tell us a bit more... Looking for Meeting Space Tailored to Your Needs? Main Website Sections Home Explore Stay Eat + Drink Events Packages & Offers Trails #exploresquamish Secondary Website Sections News & Blogs Trip Planning About Squamish Business Directory Media Resources Adventure Guide Weather & Cams Contact Us Tourism Squamish Social Media Channels Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram How will you #Explore Squamish? Terms of Use Privacy Policy Membership