Hiking : NYC Parks
on Twitter Official Website of the New York City Department of Parks & Recreation View FAQs Get email updates Shop Parks Contact us Donate Now Parks Facilities Events Programs Kids Services Trees Opportunities About Email Email Print Translate this page Tweet Hiking Email Updates Subscribe to receive regular Nature and Outdoors updates Hiking Events Sunday, September 17, 2017 Sep 17 Parking Area (in High Rock Park)								, Staten Island								 Hike through High Rock Park in search of lichen! These fascinating and tough organisms are found from front stoops in the cities to the untrammeled wilderness of the trundra. Sep 17 Take in the scenic views of the Hudson River on this hike through Fort Tryon Park, highlighting its natural features, historic landmarks, and wildlife. Wednesday, September 20, 2017 Sep 20 Join us for our weekly evening hike where we will cover 4 or 5 miles. You will probably see parts of the Greenbelt and the trail system that you haven't seen before! Friday, September 22, 2017 Sep 22 Welcome the arrival of autumn! Take in the sights, scents, and sounds of the waning summer, and look ahead to what awaits the forest in fall! Saturday, September 23, 2017 Sep 23 Staten Island Boulevard and Shields Place (in Deere Park)								, Staten Island								 Join the Urban Park Rangers on a hike of Deere Park while learning about the forest. Moderate Hikes are long, faster-paced hikes on rugged terrain. Sep 23 Van Cortlandt Nature Center (in Van Cortlandt Park)								, Bronx								 Our Urban Park Ranger hiking guides will introduce you to the hidden gems of New York City parks. On our hikes, you can gain orienteering skills, explore our city’s rich history. Sunday, September 24, 2017 Sep 24 Search for mushrooms while hiking the trails, and learn general mushroom classifications and identifying characteristics on this leisurely interpretive hike. Sep 24 Through an Urban Park Ranger-led hike, you will learn about the impacts and signs of deer on Staten Island, and maybe even see these majestic animals! Sep 24 This extensive one-way hike highlights Forest Park's history, flora, and fauna. Registration is required. Registration opens on September 13. Wednesday, September 27, 2017 Sep 27 Join us for our weekly evening hike where we will cover 4 or 5 miles. You will probably see parts of the Greenbelt and the trail system that you haven't seen before! Saturday, September 30, 2017 Sep 30 Pelham Bay Park
, Bronx								 Join a paddle across the lagoon as we explore the salt marsh and the rich biodiversity found within. We well then land on the shores of the Hunter Island Nature Preserve for a hike. Sunday, October
1, 2017 Oct
1 This free event is a chance to explore normally closed areas of Freshkills Park and enjoy the unique landscape and spectacular views the landfill-to-park project has to offer! Wednesday, October
4, 2017 Oct
4 Join us for our weekly evening hike where we will cover 4 or 5 miles. You will probably see parts of the Greenbelt and the trail system that you haven't seen before! Saturday, October
7, 2017 Oct
7 Join the Rangers as they take you on a tree walk through Fort Greene Park. Sunday, October
8, 2017 Oct
8 200 Nevada Avenue (in High Rock Park)								, Staten Island								 Trek through this part of the Staten Island Greenbelt with the Urban Park Rangers, as we explore where deer roam through our city. Wednesday, October 11, 2017 Oct 11 Join us for our weekly evening hike where we will cover 4 or 5 miles. You will probably see parts of the Greenbelt and the trail system that you haven't seen before! Wednesday, October 18, 2017 Oct 18 Join us for our weekly evening hike where we will cover 4 or 5 miles. You will probably see parts of the Greenbelt and the trail system that you haven't seen before! Wednesday, October 25, 2017 Oct 25 Join us for our weekly evening hike where we will cover 4 or 5 miles. You will probably see parts of the Greenbelt and the trail system that you haven't seen before! Wednesday, November
1, 2017 Nov
1 Join us for our weekly evening hike where we will cover 4 or 5 miles. You will probably see parts of the Greenbelt and the trail system that you haven't seen before! Wednesday, November
8, 2017 Nov
8 Join us for our weekly evening hike where we will cover 4 or 5 miles. You will probably see parts of the Greenbelt and the trail system that you haven't seen before! Wednesday, November 15, 2017 Nov 15 Join us for our weekly evening hike where we will cover 4 or 5 miles. You will probably see parts of the Greenbelt and the trail system that you haven't seen before! Search Events Day Evening All Categories Fall Festivals Free Summer Concerts Free Summer Movies Free Summer Theater Hispanic Heritage Month It's My Park Movies Under the Stars Outdoor Fitness Art Arts & Crafts Best for Kids Birding Dance Education Film Fitness Hiking History Kayaking and Canoeing Nature Talks Tours Volunteer Wildlife Accessible Astronomy Concerts Dogs Festivals Fishing Food Games Markets Seniors Sports Theater Waterfront Events in Accessible Locations Free Events “Must See” Events Thank you for yourfeedback. Copyright The City of New York