BBC - Travel - Hiking
Accessibility links Accessibility Help BBC iD Notifications BBC navigation Menu Canada's 150th Hiking A 30,000km road to a lost world The Qhapaq Ñan road network spans six countries and links modern-day South America to the legendary Inca Empire. Peru Hiking Heritage A perilous walkway fit for kings The once perilous Caminito del Rey in Málaga, Spain, is a breath-taking pathway – and after undergoing numerous renovations, it is now open to the public again.
Spain Hiking A side of Palestine that's rarely seen Infamous for walls and checkpoints that keep people apart, the Palestinian Territories are united by a walking trail tracing the footsteps of Abraham, the father of Islam and Judaism. Palestinian territories Hiking The island of beautiful waters Petroglyphs found throughout Guadeloupe’s rainforest provide a window into the island’s ancient indigenous peoples population. Caribbean & Bermuda Hiking The dark past of Oregon’s coast A 3.8-mile section of Oregon’s coast is named in remembrance of an elderly, blind Native American woman who was forced to walk for days over the sharp rocks with
bare feet. Oregon Hiking Britain’s most remote pub Before the invention of instruments, humans relied on natural navigation – a technique that uses the sun, moon, stars, wind, weather, plants and animals to provide orientation.
Scotland Hiking Britain The lesser-known Incan trail With Peru’s more famous Inca Trail becoming increasingly overrun, the lesser-known Salkantay Trek is quickly gaining a reputation as both a less-crowded and more strenuous alternative. Machu Picchu Hiking A 77km hike that could inspire miracles With Spain’s Camino de Santiago becoming a victim of its own success, Matthew Hirtes chose to walk this less-crowded, less-known version of the pilgrimage, 1,750km to the south.
Spain Hiking Editors' Picks Culinary Roots
To the Ends of the Earth
Why We Are What We Are A series that examines the characteristics of a country and investigates whether they are true.
Places That Changed the World
Lost in Translation
Welcome to Our House Celebrate human kindness in all its forms with these uplifting, feel-good tales of connection that warm and feed the soul.
50 Reasons to love the world A celebration of this planet and the pure joy of travelling around it Nature & Outdoors Cultural Activities Food & Drink Follow BBC Travel Canada's 150th Explore the BBC Copyright © 2017 BBC.