Tucson Hiking | Explore Tucson & Southern Arizona On Trails
Visit Meetings Travel Trade Media Partners Film Sports Purpose Tucson Attractions Passport Vamos a Tucson Around Tucson Districts Districts Downtown University of Arizona Catalina Foothills Westside Eastside Southside Pima County Oro Valley Beyond Tucson Beyond Tucson Cochise County Graham County Santa Cruz Valley Central Arizona Featured in Tucson Featured in Tucson Tucson Visitor Center Newcomers & Relocation Transportation Western Experience Caves Mt. Lemmon Science Tour Wineries Spanish colonial history, wineries, birding and much more, just a short drive from Tucson Things To Do Categories Attractions Casino Gaming Day Trips & Tours Family Fun Golf Health & Wellness Heritage & Culture Outdoor Adventure Shopping Space, Science & Technology The Arts Featured in Tucson Featured in Tucson Next Stop, Summer! Hiking Cycling Nightlife Mt. Lemmon Science Tour App Tucson on Film Bird Watching 11 Uniquely Tucson Boutiques & Shops Get incredible savings at the region's best attractions Accommodations Categories Categories Bed & Breakfasts Guest Ranches Hotels & Motels Oro Valley Pet Friendly RV Parks & Campgrounds Resorts & Spas Resorts Spas Vacation Rentals Featured in Tucson Featured in Tucson 5 Only-in-Tucson Spa Treatments Cowboy Up Want a different Downtown Tucson experience? Consider a B&B Food & Drink Categories Categories Cafeterias & Buffets Microbreweries & Brew Pubs Nightlife in Tucson Oro Valley - Where to Eat Patio Dining Resort & Hotel Dining Wineries/Vineyards Featured in Tucson Featured in Tucson Exploring Tucson’s Gastronomy Baja Brews Date Night in Tucson Tucson’s Top Ten Beers The Evolution of the Taco Farmers' Markets Ten Great Tucson Sonoran Hot Dogs Tours & Day Trips The heart of Tucson's Best 23 Miles of Mexican Food is right here Events Categories Calendar of Events Top Picks Signature Events Marquee Sports Events Featured in Tucson Featured in Tucson Tucson Gem, Mineral & Fossil Showcase Major League Soccer Preseason Tucson Conquistadores Classic Tucson 23 Mexican Baseball Fiesta El Tour de Tucson Tucson Marathon Tucson's PGA TOUR Champions event. Find a Hotel Things To Do Hiking
Hiking
Hiking Take a multi-day backpacking excursion, or a leisurely stroll through the desert. Find Hiking Trails   Hiking the Mountains Around Tucson Tortolita Mountains to the Northwest  Arizona National Scenic Trail     Tucson Urban Trails With weather like ours, you don't have to get out of town to get back to the great outdoors. Tucson's urban trails are a great way to unwind, get some exercise and soak up the sun or stars just minutes from wherever you may be in the city. "The Loop" is an ongoing project of more than 100 car-free miles of trails around Tucson and connecting to our neighboring communities of Marana and Oro Valley. It's great for walking, biking, skating, and even horseback riding. If it doesn't have an engine, it's good to go on The Loop. This 11-mile trail winds through Tucson's north side along the Rillito Riverbed, from Craycroft Road near mid-town nearly all the way to Interstate 10 on the city's northwest side. Don't worry about starting at either end—you can access the trail at lots of points along the way. Santa Cruz River Park Trail
Do you know a place so quiet that you can hear your own heart beating?
Petey Mesquitey More Hiking in Southern Arizona The Sonoran Desert and the northwestern tip of the Chihuahuan Desert both stretch into Southern Arizona, a region of hundreds of square miles that extends south to the Mexican border.  South of Tucson, the Chiricahua Mountains, Huachuca Mountains and Dragoon Mountains also offer some of the best hiking trails in Southern Arizona.
Hiking near Mt. Lemmon
Hiking on Tumamoc Hill
Hiking in the Tucson Mountains
Hiking in Sabino Canyon
Helpful Links Featured Hiking in Tucson Hiking Trails on Facebook Today at 03:10pm Today at 12:35am Today at 09:05pm Visitor Center Information Board of Directors Careers Privacy Policy Sitemap Testimonials & Feedback Click Here for ENewsletter SignUp Contact Us Request a Visitors Guide Phone: Copyright 2017