Hiking equipment - Wikipedia
Hiking equipment Contents 1 Planning and checklists 2 Carrying methods and capacity 3 Clothing 3.1 Hot-wet-weather clothing 3.2 Snow-ice-cold clothing 4 Shelter 4.1 Overnight shelter 4.2 Continuous clothing-sleeping layers 5 Basic equipment and abilities 5.1 Water kit 5.2 Transporting water 5.3 Fire kit 5.4 Cordage 5.5 Containers 6 Food 7 Refrigeration 7.1 Cooking 8 Personal hygiene 9 Electronics 10 Additional equipment 11 Example checklists 12 Possible hazards 13 See also 13.1 Related activities 14 References 15 Bibliography Planning and checklists [ ] Considerations for choice of hiking equipment may include: Length and remoteness of trip Optimal weight and capacity Special medical considerations Weather: temperature range, sun/shade, rain, snow, ice Terrain: trail conditions, cliffs, sand, swamp, river crossings Shelter and clothes Water plan Food Overnight shelter Equipment for special activities Carrying methods and capacity [ ] A pack's capacity to carry items is determined by: Carrying methods on the body Bag volume Construction strength, design, materials, and construction quality Commonly-used carrying methods include: A wristband, belt loop, a thin neck lanyard, and clothing pockets are among the smaller, lighter methods. A small belt pouch (60 cu.in., 1 liter) that can attach to a belt Day packs (1,000-2,000 cu.in., 17-34L) are small to mid-sized backpacks that have two shoulder straps, smaller ones may not include a waist belt. A harness system may include a small backpack, a waistpack, a vest, and several belt pouches. Clothing [ ] Clothing provides insulation from heat, cold, water or fire. It shades the body and protects it from injury from thorns and insect bites. For long trips, having enough clothes to change into is helpful, while washing or drying others. An extra pair of socks can be used as mittens. Shorts for swimming and fording streams are also useful. Wet clothes do not insulate as well and can freeze while a hiker is wearing them. If a hiker falls into ice water, an immediate dry change of clothes from a dry bag can be lifesaving. Layered clothing helps regulate body temperature in varying weather conditions. Hot-wet-weather clothing [ ] Long-sleeved shirt and long pants provide sun and insect protection, and help to reduce abrasions when plowing through brush and when slipping and falling on rocks. Sun hat Bug jackets and head-nets provide insect protection and are especially useful if the insect repellent is either not effective or runs out. These are a couple items that hikers may use to minimize the use of insect repellent on their skin. Raincoat Plastic bags made into a poncho and a rain skirt Plastic bags put on over socks then inserted into shoes Snow-ice-cold clothing [ ] Long underwear Insulated face mask to provide a solid wind barrier for extreme cold that is beyond a balaclava. Shelter [ ] Overnight shelter [ ] Continuous clothing-sleeping layers [ ] The line can blur or shift between clothing, bedding, and structural shelter. A rain-poncho and its thermal liner (or a regular poncho) is an example of equipment that can be clothing, bedding, and structural shelter. Ultralight backpackers use typical cold-weather clothes to extend the temperature ranges of their sleepingbags. Then this reasoning can extend to packing a winter coat and snow pants with a bivy bag before adding a two-pound sleeping bag. Adding an insulated pair of socks or down booties would complete the insulation layer. Basic equipment and abilities [ ] Container (see below) Cordage (see below) Fire (see below) Flashlight (UK torch) or two, preferably hands-free (headband or headlamp), spare batteries and bulb. Clothing: long-sleeved shirt and pants, hat with a full brim or used with a bandana, thin gloves Lip balm Water kit [ ] Transporting water [ ] Fire kit [ ] Cordage [ ] Cordage provides the abilities to bind, build, repair, and prevent damage. It comes in many sizes and materials, and can be used for building shelters and traps, flossing teeth, fishing, repairing and making clothes, replacing shoelaces, gluing or taping things together. Many cordages are made from natural materials. Some types of cordage are: Sewing and suturing thread, dental floss, fishing line, bank line, string, twine, clothes line. Wire, such as tripwire or snare wire, has many uses. Lanyards, straps, belts, bungee cords Climbing rope for shelters, cliffs, and scrambling Superglue Containers [ ] There are a variety of containers for organizing and keeping equipment dry: Hard-sided, plastic containers that seal using an O-ring may be used to carry critical or expensive equipment, such as electronics, and for the kit that holds the main pocket items. Food [ ] Taking foods that do not require cooking provides for higher mobility (not stopping to cook), and allows for the contingencies of not having a fire, the cook stove breaking, or running out of fuel. In general, the foods in a grocery store that are not in the refrigerated-freezer sections, are available for the trail. Flavor enhancers: salt, salt substitute, powdered peppers, spices, dried herbs, powdered bullion or cubes, hot sauce. Vegan note: The equipment in this article comes from hoping for the best and preparing for the worst, balanced with how much a hiker wants to carry and is willing to risk. Within that context, if the worse scenario happens and starvation is imminent, then it may be too late to choose and learn and be able to fish and trap. As neutrally stated, the decision becomes an informed choice. If hikers plan their food carefully, they may wind up eating more healthily on the trail. Refrigeration [ ] Cooking [ ] Alcohol stove Beverage can stove Billycan Cooking in tinfoil pockets Cooking with green-sticks Steaming food in appropriate green leaves Using a metal grill Using thin rocks as a skillet Cook stove Hobo stove Portable stove Rocket stove Shichirin Towel, bandana, or cotton T-shirt Biodegradable soap, or natural cleansers like baking soda, vinegar, pure lemon crystals Personal hygiene [ ] Equipment not already in the kitchen. Dental hygiene: toothbrush (may be sharpened for a marlin spike for rope work), etc. Feminine hygiene that doubles as first-aid and tinder: tampons, pads Toilet paper (tinder), wet wipes (sure fire) Tweezers, in a kit, in a multi-tool, on a keyring Electronics [ ] Camera, extra film/memory card Cell phone Emergency-channel scanner Flashlight, a red filter saves night vision, but reduces sight distance and signalling; carry a spare bulb. Additional equipment [ ] Jungle: machete, hammock, extra tinder and insect repellent Notepad and writing implements for leaving notes, making notes, drawing, journaling Rain-proof cover for backpack Sewing kit: scissors can be in the multi-tool, a place to store the threaded needles, dental floss and fishing line may double as thread, Kevlar thread, safety pins for repair and fishing hooks, replacements for critical buttons or fasteners. Waterproofing supplies Water bottle parka to either delay freezing or when wet, provide cooling Example checklists [ ] Wrist, optional: watch, parachute cord, fishing line, compass, altimeter, mini-versions of survival items Neck-lanyard, optional: neck knife, mini-flashlight, firesteel, lighter Keyring kit: pocket compass, whistle, P-38 can opener (backup blade), optional: keyring knife or multi-tool, mini-flashlight, small firesteel Pockets: keyring kit, lighters and firesteel, folding knife with sharpener or multi-tool with a metal file, bandana, map, cordage, optional electronics Water: water purification, non-lubed condoms, large oven bag Cordage: parachute cord, thin-wire spool, large-threaded sewing needles, dental floss, duct tape Optional: small containers of sunscreen and insect repellent, binocular/monocular, electronics. Belt: belt-pouch kits, optional: larger cutting tools, water container, sunglass case with glasses, earplugs, etc.; electronics. Belt-knife sheath may include a sharpener, a firesteel, etc. Either the belt-items are worn, or they are included in the waistpack. Waistpack (or haversack) in waterproof containers: previous kits, large-clear plastic bags, wide-mouth-metal water-bottle, space-blanket or bag, bandanas, hats, gloves, scarf, socks, light-weight-wind-rain layer, thin-long base layer, swim-hiking shorts, high-energy-ready-to-eat food, emergency trapping kit, optional electronics Small-to-mid-sized backpack: previous kits, larger cutting-chopping-sawing tools, more water containers (most collapsible for flexibility), mid-weight clothing layer, bivy bag, cooking pot with food kit, personal-hygiene kit, optional: hydration bag, cold-weather coat and pants. The light-weight-rain layer may be replaced with a heavier outer layer. Mid-to-large backpack: previous kits, sleep-system, regular-overnight shelter, snow clothing and equipment, additional food and water, optional: large bucksaw or camp-axe Possible hazards [ ] clarification needed Alligators Avalanche Bears Cliffs Dehydration Drowning Exsanguination Exposure (heights) Flash floods Hyperthermia Hypothermia Lightning Malaria Moose Poisonous animals Poisonous plants Starvation Swamps Ticks Weather Whitewater Wilderness diarrhea Wildfires See also [ ] Camping equipment Outdoor education Rock-climbing equipment Scout Outdoor Essentials Search and rescue Mini survival kits Survival skills Ten Essentials Related activities [ ] Adventure travel Camping Canoeing Cross-country skiing Dog hiking Fishing Hammock camping Hillwalking Hunting Jungle tourism Llama hiking Mountain biking Mountaineering Nordic Walking Orienteering Rafting Rock climbing Scrambling Snowshoeing Swimhiking Thru-hiking Travel backpacking Travel writing Walking tour References [ ]     ^ 2014-07-27         ^ 2014-07-24         ^     2014-07-20     2014-07-20     2014-07-20     ^ 2014-07-20     ^ 2014-07-20     2014-07-20     ^ 2014-07-20     ^     ^     ^     ^ 2014-07-25     (PDF) 2014-07-25     ^ 2014-07-25     ^ 2014-07-25     ^ 2014-07-25     ^ 2014-07-20     (PDF) 2014-07-20     2014-07-20     ^     ^ October 27,         2014-07-20     ^ 2014-07-20     2014-07-20     2014-07-20     ^ (PDF) 2014-07-20     ^ 2014-07-20     ^ 2014-07-25     ^ 2014-07-25     ^ August 6,     ^ August 6,     ^ August 6,     ^ August 6,     ^ 2014-07-27     ^ slingshot ^ condoms 2009-09-23     2009-10-06     2014-07-20     ^     ^ 2014-07-26     ^ 2014-07-26     ^ 2014-07-26     ^ 2014-07-26     ^ 2014-07-20     ^ 2014-07-20     ^ 2014-07-20     ^     ^ rehydration Bibliography [ ] Hiking equipment Survival equipment CS1 maint: Multiple names: authors list Pages with URL errors Articles needing cleanup from October 2014 All pages needing cleanup Articles containing how-to sections Articles needing additional references from October 2014 All articles needing additional references Wikipedia articles needing clarification from August 2015 Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Article Talk Talk Variants
Views Read Read Edit Edit View history View history More More
Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Languages
Add links
This page was last edited on 31 August 2017, at 17:20. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Cookie statement Mobile view