Aspen Colorado Hiking Trails - Hiking Outfitters
Arts and Culture Aspen History & Heritage Aspen Seasons Itineraries LGBTQ Aspen Local's Tips Kids and Family Recreation Restaurants & Nightlife Shopping Trip Highlights Backcountry Huts & Camping Condominiums Home Rentals Hotels, Lodges & B&Bs Private Residence Clubs Travel Agents & Tour Operators Aspen Flight Info Getting Around Maps Transportation By-Laws/Chamber Budget 2013 Economic Sustainability Report 2014 Destination Marketing Annual Report 2016 Annual Report	 2016 Summer Research Executive Summary Archived Reports Consumption Tax Reports Occupancy Reports Staff List Strategic Plan Advertising & Partnership Opportunities Business of the Year Program Guest Service Tips Season Ski Pass Information Board of Directors Agendas & Minutes Executive Finance Marketing Advisory Minutes Member Services Nominating Public Affairs Join the Chamber ACRA Quarterly Events Business After Hours Business Forums Seminars Videos Member Log-In Event Calendar ACRA Annual Events Community Calendar Altitude & Weather Aspen Sister Cities City of Aspen Demographics Aspen Skiing Company Canary Initiative Green Non-Profits Legalized Marijuana Local Transportation & Parking Employment Housing Religious Organizations Schools/Daycare Visitor Centers Blog Group & Event Planning Hotels & Venues Request Group Info Our Gift To You Meetings Brochure Groups Articles Group & Event Planning Hotels & Venues Site Visit Reimbursement Apply to FAM Submit Meetings RFP Meetings Brochure Meeting Articles Group & Event Planning Marriage and Civil Union Requirements Our Gift To You Request Wedding Info Top 10 Reasons to get Married in Aspen Wedding Hotels Real Aspen Weddings Wedding Articles Aspen Fact Sheet Links to Aspen Articles Aspen PR Clippings Aspen Photographers Media Kit News Releases Aspen Community News Video Sample Itineraries What's New Story Ideas Business Directory Toggle navigation About Aspen Blog Groups Meetings & Incentives Weddings Media Business Directory Arts and Culture Aspen History & Heritage Aspen Seasons Itineraries LGBTQ Aspen Local's Tips Kids and Family Recreation Restaurants & Nightlife Shopping Trip Highlights Backcountry Huts & Camping Condominiums Home Rentals Hotels, Lodges & B&Bs Private Residence Clubs Travel Agents & Tour Operators Aspen Flight Info Getting Around Maps Transportation Your Chamber Info Member Benefits Boards & Committees Join the Chamber Member Events Member Log-In Event Calendar ACRA Annual Events Community Calendar Search form 70F High 32F Low
Defy Ordinary Book Your Trip Call or text a local vacation expert at 800-670-0792 Home Explore Aspen Recreation Hiking Trails
Hiking Trails
Aspen—and the entire Roaring Fork Valley—is the epitome of a hiker’s paradise with a system of trails for all abilities. Whether it’s the multi-night trek across the Four Pass Loop for experts or a paved path for beginners, the scenery through fields of wildflowers, across rushing streams, or deep into a dense forest will stay with you forever. IN & AROUND ASPEN Elevation: 7,700 ft. - 7,900 ft. This is both a hiking and biking trail. The trail starts behind the Post Office on Puppy Smith Road. The first two miles of the trail are paved and then becomes a dirt trail after crossing Cemetery Road. Elevation: 8,900 ft. - 10,400 ft. The trail begins just east of the apartments on Lone Pine Road or directly off of the Rio Grande Trail extension which was completed in 2013.  This is a gradual uphill climb along the Hunter Creek towards Hunter Valley.  To access the upper trail, drive north on Mill Street, veer left onto Red Mountain Road and follow for 1.1 miles to Hunter Creek Road.  Turn right onto Hunter Road and follow the signs to the parking lot.  Upper portions of the trail pass through alpine meadows scattered with several abandoned homestead cabins.  Miles one way: 6.5. Elevation: 8,000 ft. - 10,000 ft. The first part of the trail contains a series of switchbacks through sagebrush and scrub oak. About 1 mile along the trail, you will cross a driveway and then continue on to Red Mountain. The trail finally joins with the Hunter Creek Trail in the Hunter Creek Valley. As there are many spurs that can lead to one getting lost, a topographical map is recommended. Miles one way: 6.3. EAST OF ASPEN OFF OF HWY 82 One way, the trip is about 0.6 miles. This is a popular area for picnicking and exploring.  There is a waterfall, some interesting rock formations, an ice cave, and numerous short trails.  This is a great area for families. The old town of Ruby is an abandoned mining camp.  Drive east on Hwy 82 for 11 miles to the Lincoln Creek Road turnoff.  Follow the dirt road 6 miles to Grizzly Reservoir.  At this point the road becomes a four-wheel drive road.  You can begin your hike here.  The road continues 5 miles to the ghost town of Ruby.  The hike begins at about 10,400 feet in elevation. This trail is located approximately 13 1/2 miles east of Aspen on Hwy 82 on your right.  This is designed to give the blind hiker a feel for the outdoors.  Twenty-two messages are provided along the trail in both Braille and in print.  Nylon cord guides are provided for the blind.  The hike is 3.6 miles (one way) in length with an elevation gain of 2,000 feet.  A moderate hike until the end where you have 1/4 of a mile of switchbacks. Elevation: 10,300 ft. - 12,300 ft. The trail is 3.9 miles one way.  Tabor Lake is accessible from this trail about 1/2 mile to the west.  The trail follows an old jeep road and will end with Anderson Lake 1/3 of a mile to the left and Petroleum Lake  3/4 of a mile to the right.  The total hiking distance to Petroleum Lake is 1.8 miles one way.  Miles one way: 8.9.  Elevation: 10,500 ft. - 12,800 ft.  Miles one way: 8.8.  Elevation: 9,900 ft. - 11,900 ft. The trail connects with the Hunter Creek Trail that eventually will take you back to Aspen (20 miles).  A topographical map is mandatory!  Elevation: 10,000 ft. - 12,300 ft. The length is 4.2 miles one way.  A topographical map is mandatory - it is easy to get lost. IN & AROUND WOODY CREEK Miles one way: 9.7.  Elevation: 8,600 ft. - 11,600 ft.  Elevation: 8,500 ft. - 12,500 ft. The trailhead begins 7 miles past the town of Lenado.  Lenado is about 10 miles east of the Town of Woody Creek.  Length is 3.4 miles. IN THE CASTLE CREEK VALLEY Miles one way: 8.5.  Elevation: 8,500 ft. - 12,500 ft.  The natural Hot Springs is at the end of a gently rising 8.8 miles.  Camping around the Hot Springs is limited.  If continuing up Triangle Pass, you can connect with the East Maroon and Copper Passes, or continue approximately 10 miles further to Gothic at Crested Butte. This was once a popular old wagon road to Crested Butte.  This trail, which is also a 4-wheel drive road, begins off Castle Creek Road about 1 3/4 miles beyond the ghost town of Ashcroft.  The road starts to the right, continue about 3 1/4 miles until a fork is reached.  Veering to the left will take you to the top of Pearl Pass (4 1/2 miles).  The right fork leads to Montezuma Basin.  Miles one way: 3.2.  Elevation: 9,400 ft. - 11,400 ft.  The trail rises steeply and then follows a series of switchbacks for the first 1 1/2 miles.  Then the trail levels off with gentle rises until you reach the lake at 3.2 miles.  Miles one way: 3.5.  Elevation: 9,500 ft. - 11,866 ft.  The trail climbs steadily and then reaches a series of switchbacks followed by a marked fork.  Take the left fork to Cathedral Lake for a total hike of 3.2 miles.  Cathedral Lake is very scenic with fair fishing.  If hiking to Electric Pass, it is advisable to start early and descend by Noon, as lightning storms are likely to occur in the afternoon hours. IN & AROUND THE MAROON BELLS Miles one way: 1.3.  Elevation: 9,500 ft. - 10,000 ft. The trail follows the lake to the far side and meanders along the creek flowing into the lake.  This is a great place for pictures and picnics. The trail begins at Maroon Lake, 10 miles up Maroon Creek Road.  The Maroon-Snowmass Trail climbs through the Aspens to the lake.  The left trail or the scenic trail follows a river and crosses two bridges, then climbs steeply to meet with the Maroon-Snowmass Trail.  Distance to the trail is 1 3/4 miles one way. Miles one way: 8.5.  Elevation: 9,000 ft. - 12,000 ft. Miles one way: 6.2.  Elevation: 10,000 ft. - 12,500 ft.  From the top of the pass, the trail descends to the Frigid Air Pass, and Schofield Park out of Crested Butte.  The hike to Crested Butte is about 12 miles.  The top of the pass is tricky and steep.  The soil can be slick if it is wet.  The total distance is 4.6 miles one way.  After about 1/2 mile above the tree line is the Maroon-Snowmass and Willow Lake junction.  Take the left fork that ascends steadily to Buckskin Pass.  The total hiking distance is 6 1/2 miles.  Follow the directions to Crater Lake.  Then at the Crater Lake bulletin board, take the right fork.  The trail ascends steeply.  After about 1/2 mile above the tree line is the Maroon-Snowmass and Willow Lake trail junction.  At the junction, take the right fork.  The trail ascends steeply to the top of Willow Pass.  From the top of the pass, the trail descends to the junction with East Snowmass trail.  Continue straight on the trail for the last 1/2 mile to the lake.  IN & AROUND SNOWMASS Miles one way: 6.8.  Elevation: 9,400 ft. - 11,400 ft. The trail begins a short distance up Maroon Creek Road at Islen Park behind the tennis courts.  It continues across the river to Buttermilk Mountain.  The total trip of 7 miles (one way) to Snowmass Village winds through wooded areas and meadows.  This is a pleasant hike after a steep beginning.  Hikers MUST be careful to stay on the trail as it crosses private property. Miles one way: 8.2.  Elevation: 8,400 ft. - 12,600 ft. This trail is a fairly steep hike and goes through varying terrain along East Snowmass Creek.  The round trip is about 17 miles with an elevation gain of 4,200 feet.  A virtual tour from the top of Aspen Mountain, where you can hike, eat lunch at the Sundeck, play frisbee golf, or even get married. A virtual tour of the Grottos and Ice Caves off of Highway 82 heading up Independence Pass. Great place for a day hike and picnic. A virtual tour of the most photographed peaks in North America. Plenty of hikes for all abilities at the Maroon Bells. A virtual tour of one of the most accessible hikes from downtown Aspen. A virtual tour from the Ghost Town close to the top of Independence Pass and the Continental Divide. A virtual tour of this quick & difficult hike to a stunning view of the Valley. From The Blog 5 Lesser Known Hiking Trails Hiking Around the Maroon Bells X close Explore Events Social Explore Auxilliary Menu Aspen History & Heritage Spring in Aspen Summer in Aspen Fall in Aspen Winter in Aspen 24 Hours in Aspen For the Foodie Free or Nearly Free Mountain of Youth Adventure Seeker Creature of Culture For the Yogi History Buff Music Maniac Recreation Hound Summer Saturday Summer Sunday Barclay Dodge Chris Klug Christy Mahon Cristal Logan Duncan Clauss Klaus Obermeyer Kodah the Dog Kids and Family LGBTQ Aspen Adventure Dining Après Ski Aspen Mountain Gondola Aspen Saturday Market Beyond Aspen Fall Foliage Independence Pass John Denver Sanctuary Learning Vacations Live Music Locally Grown Maroon Bells Scenic Drives Backcountry Huts & Camping Condominiums Home Rentals Hotels, Lodges & B&Bs Private Residence Clubs Travel Agents & Tour Operators Aspen Flight Info Getting Around Maps Transportation By-Laws/Chamber Budget 2013 Economic Sustainability Report 2014 Destination Marketing Annual Report 2016 Annual Report 2016 Summer Research Executive Summary Archived Reports Consumption Tax Reports Occupancy Reports Staff List Strategic Plan Advertising & Partnership Opportunities Business of the Year Program Guest Service Tips Season Ski Pass Information Board of Directors Agendas & Minutes Executive Finance Marketing Advisory Minutes Member Services Nominating Public Affairs Join the Chamber ACRA Quarterly Events Business After Hours Business Forums Seminars Videos Member Log-In Event Calendar 12 Days of Aspen Aspen Arts Festival FOOD & WINE Volunteer Application Old Fashioned 4th of July Annual Slogan Contest WinterFest Wintersköl King & Queen Community Calendar Upcoming Events in Aspen 39th Annual Aspen Filmfest 10/3/2017 The Meeting 10/6/2017 John Denver Celebration 10/9/2017 Aspen Academy Screenings 12/19/2017 12 Days of Aspen 12/20/2017 Newsletter Signup Be in the know about Aspen Whether you are planning a trip to Aspen or just want to stay connected, sign up to receive monthly newsletters for the latest information on events, tips, activities, and deals. We look forward to your visit! Select a country Email Lists Summer Monthly E-News (May-October) Winter Monthly E-News (November-April) www.AspenChamber.org the Official Online Guide to Aspen™ EXPLORE ASPEN WHERE TO STAY HOW TO GET HERE EVENTS MEMBERSHIP ABOUT ASPEN MEETINGS WEDDINGS AND GROUPS MEDIA BUSINESS DIRECTORY BLOG WEATHER NEWSLETTER SIGNUP VACATION GUIDE CONTACT US PRIVACY POLICY SITEMAP 425 RIO GRAND PLACE ASPEN CO 81611   Local Phone: 970.925.1940 Toll Free: 800.670.0792 [email protected]