Best hiking near NYC accessible via public transportation
Close New York New York Search 1 13 Love It Save it The best hiking near NYC Don't have a car? No problem. Lace up those hiking boots and get out of the city with the best hiking near NYC. Share Tweet By Jordi Lippe-McGraw and Annalise Mantz Posted: Friday May 26 2017 Best hiking near NYC
Anthony's Nose Hike
Appalachian Trail
Arden Point and Glenclyffe
It doesn’t get much easier then stepping off the train and on to the trailhead. After taking the Metro North to the Garrison stop, you’ll see two stone pillars and a sign for “Arden Point – Hudson Highlands State Park.” You’ll follow that for a 3.7-mile circuit passing several panoramic viewpoints over the Hudson. Bonus: you’ll get to walk along a historic road Benedict Arnold used to escape during the Revolutionary War.   Advertising
Big Indian Mountain
Blue Mountain Reservation Loop
There’s no better motivation for getting some exercise than the promise of a crisp beer at the end. This 12-mile loop starts about a mile from the Peekskill Metro North stop and once on the trail, you’ll be able to hit to viewpoints over the Hudson River and pass a serene pond along the way. On your way back to the train, make sure to stop at the Peekskill Brewery to reward yourself for tackling the climb.
Breakneck Ridge Trail
Advertising
Camp Smith Trail
If the Appalachian Trail and Bear Mountain are a bit crowded, this three-and-a-half-mile hike is great for a little solo strolling. The rolling hills are great for some fitness but aren't overwhelmingly difficult. With fairly easy terrain, even your four-legged friend can join you on the trail. Take the Metro-North Hudson line to Peekskill Station for free shuttles to the Bear Mountain Inn where you can hike up to see incredible Hudson Valley vistas.
Doodletown Bridle Path Loop
Franny Reese State Park
In less than two hours, Metro-North's Hudson line brings you to Poughkeepsie, where a whole day of activities await you. Start with a stroll on the Walkway Over the Hudson (the world’s longest pedestrian bridge perched 212 feet above the river) before heading west into Franny Reese State Park. There are two-and-a-half miles of trails with sites like an old carriage road, ruins of a 19th-century estate and superb views of the Mid-Hudson Bridge. Reward yourself with dinner at one of the many restaurants nearby before heading home.
Advertising
Indian Rock/Wanaque Ridge Trail Loop
Lakes? Check. Babbling brooks? Check. Stunning views? Check. This 5.5-mile hike has it all. After taking NJ Transit's #197 bus from the Port Authority to the intersection of Ringwood Avenue and Second Avenue in Wanaque, you’ll walk just under a mile to begin your journey. You'll climb the scenic Ramapo Lake and follow the Wanaque Ridge Trail along the western ridge of the Ramapo Mountains where you’ll spot stunning views over New Jersey and Ramapo Lake.     Find the best hiking trails in America Hit one of these epic hiking trails to experience some of America’s most iconic and dramatic landscapes at ground level
By: Rebecca Dalzell
Posted: Wednesday June 24 2015, 12:00am
Share Tweet 1 Comments You might also like The best water sports in NYC Outdoor summer concerts in NYC: The best alfresco gigs
The best places to go ice-skating in NYC The best things to do in spring in NYC Memorial Day in NYC Work for Time Out Privacy policy Website terms of use Get listed Advertising Mobile apps Time Out Travel Time Out Worldwide Facebook Twitter Youtube Instagram Pinterest Spotify Foursquare © 2017 Time Out America LLC and affiliated companies owned by Time Out Group Plc. All rights reserved. Time Out is a registered trademark of Time Out America LLC.