What N.J. thinks of hiking minimum wage, legalizing pot | 						NJ.com
NJ.com Menu Home News Politics Sports High School Sports Entertainment Legal Notices Photos/Videos Obituaries Autos Jobs Real Estate Rentals Health Classifieds Local Businesses Place An Ad Opinion Follow Us Subscribe News by County All Newspapers Off Season Sports Resources Email newsletters The Star-Ledger The Times of Trenton The Jersey Journal South Jersey Times Hunterdon County Democrat Close Customize Your Weather Congratulations! Search Search NJ.com Account Sign In Close NJ.com You are signed in as Edit Public Profile Sign Out Subscribe Email newsletters The Star-Ledger The Times of Trenton The Jersey Journal South Jersey Times Hunterdon County Democrat What N.J. thinks of hiking minimum wage, legalizing pot Comment NJ Advance Media for NJ.com The poll shows: * 9 percent say there should be no increase. * 49 percent say there should be an increase to something less than $15 an hour. * 32 percent say the new minimum wage should be $15 an hour. * 8 percent say it should be higher than $15 an hour. On marijuana, 59 percent of voters support allowing adults to legally possess small amounts of marijuana for recreational use.  The only group opposed is Republicans, who are 53 to 43 percent against the idea. Voters over 65 years old are split, with 47 percent in favor and 50 percent opposed.  Still, 55 percent of voters say they would "definitely not try" marijuana if it were legal, while 9 percent say they would "definitely try" it and 12 percent say they would "probably try it."  New Jersey Democrats have introduced a bill that would make New Jersey the ninth state in the U.S. to legalize and tax marijuana. On guns, Thursday's poll shows 96 percent of voters are in favor of requiring background checks for all gun buyers. Only 3 percent oppose. The survey also found 63 percent say New Jersey would be less safe if more people carried firearms, while 28 percent say it would be safer.  The results are not surprising. Registered Democrats outnumber registered Republicans nearly 2-to-1 in the state.  The poll was conducted via phone from Sept. 7-12 with 1,121 registered New Jersey voters. The margin-of-error was plus-or-munes 4 percentage points.  nj.com About Us More on NJ.com NJ.com Sections Contribute to NJ.com
Follow Us Newspaper stories and photos Mobile