New York-New Jersey Trail Conference | The Authority for NY-NJ Hiking Trails
Toggle navigation My Dashboard Search Login Tour Website Volunteer Events Programs Donate Membership Find Hikes and Parks Find a Hiking Club Hiking Resources Shop Partner Discounts Shopping Resources About Us Contact Us FAQ Jobs Resources News Center Trail Alerts Trail Forums Connecting people with nature since 1920 Connecting people with nature since 1920 Hike of the Week This hike climbs to the top of the Tourne, with panoramic views, loops around the southern... Home Run Trail Lovers September Combo Get our Trail Conference embroidered baseball cap and 3/4 sleeve Raglan Baseball T-Shirt at a great price.
about Home Run Trail Lovers September Combo Product Details Baseball Cap Baseball T-Shirt with Raglan 3/4 Sleeves Map and Compass September Combo Use your back-to-nature skills with our North Jersey Trails map and a quality A-10 Suunto compass.
about Map and Compass September Combo Product Details North Jersey Trails Map High-grade steel needle with jewel bearing Protractor with orienting lines for navigating with a map Fixed declination correction scale Metric and English ruler Never loses connection or battery power! Bear Mountain Stewards *
about Bear Mountain Stewards Catskills Outreach Volunteer | Woodstock Farm Festival Hike159_PlatteClove1_Wagstaff2012.jpg Don’t know everything about the Trail Conference? That’s okay! We will teach you everything you need to know to go forth and spread the trail love!   08/18/2017
about Catskills Outreach Volunteer | Woodstock Farm Festival Trail Crew Volunteer | Breakneck Ridge IMG_5193_resized.jpg The rewarding feeling of restoring a trail for future generations to enjoy and explore the outdoors 08/16/2017
about Trail Crew Volunteer | Breakneck Ridge Trail Management Policy Building and maintaining hiking trails is a core service that the Trail Conference provides. This Trail Management Policy specifies the fundamental principles and guidelines governing the management of the trails for which we are responsible. Further details about how this policy is implemented are contained in the practice and procedure documents referenced including the Trail Management Guide. 05/09/2017
about Trail Management Policy Trails Policy 2011 03/29/2011
about Trails Policy 2011 Amazon
about Amazon VOLUNTEER
about VOLUNTEER Harriman Hiker Combo
about Harriman Hiker Combo Product Details Save big on this combo package: Trail News Rehabilitating the Trails of the Ramapo Mountains Hard Labor Is Thoughtful Labor Urgent Call to Protect the Long Path and Highlands Trail More News Find Your Next Hike with Our Interactive Map Celebrate the 101st Anniversary of the National Park Service Trail Conference Headquarters Gone Wild(Flowers) Upcoming Events Wildflowers Art Exhibit: June 2 - Sept. 28 | Trail Conference Headquarters Call for Entries: Hiker, Who Are You? Portraits of the Trail | Trail Conference Headquarters Wilderness First Aid Workshop | Welch Trail Education Center LT-1 Volunteer Donate $ 40.00 $ 100.00 $ 250.00 Quick Links Login/Register E-News Signup Search form