Local tech firm pursues niche business in machine learning | Local | richmond.com
Current 7-day subscribers can add digital for free Digital only Seven-day home delivery plus digital Receive your newspaper every day and get unlimited digital access at no additional charge. You won't miss anything. Your digital package includes unlimited use of Richmond.com on desktop and mobile web, as well as our electronic replica edition every day. Six-day home delivery plus digital Receive your newspaper Monday through Saturday. Your subscription includes popular sections such as RTD Culture on Thursdays, Richmond Drives on Fridays and RTD Metro Business on Mondays. Plus get unlimited digital access at Richmond.com. $19 per month after six-month introductory offer. Four-day home delivery (Thurs.-Sun.) plus digital Your subscription includes popular sections such as RTD Culture on Thursdays and Richmond Drives on Fridays. Plus receive unlimited digital access at Richmond.com. $19 per month after six-month introductory offer. Four-day home delivery (Fri.-Mon.) plus digital Your subscription includes popular sections such as RTD Metro Business on Mondays and Richmond Drives on Fridays. Plus receive unlimited digital access at Richmond.com. $19 per month after six-month introductory offer. Sunday home delivery plus digital Receive the Sunday newspaper, stuffed with money-saving offers, with unlimited digital access at Richmond.com. $19 per month after six-month introductory offer. × Re-enter zip code or sign up for digital access. Get digital access Please confirm you are in our delivery area Seven-day home delivery Receive the newspaper every day. This option does not include unlimited digital access. Six-day home delivery Receive the newspaper Monday through Saturday. This option does not include unlimited digital access. Four-day home delivery (Thurs.-Sun.) Receive the newspaper Thursday through Sunday. This option does not include unlimited digital access. Four-day home delivery (Fri.-Mon.) Receive the newspaper Friday through Monday. This option does not include unlimited digital access. Sunday home delivery Receive the Sunday newspaper. This option does not include unlimited digital access. × Re-enter zip code or sign up for digital access. Get digital access Please confirm you are in our delivery area × Re-enter zip code or sign up for digital access. Get digital access Please confirm you are in our delivery area 80° Partly cloudy. High 83F. Winds NE at 5 to 10 mph.. A few clouds. Low near 65F. Winds light and variable. Toggle navigation Menu Search Sign Up Dashboard My Account Subscribe Home E-edition How to use the e-edition Obituaries Death Notices Video Buy & Sell Classified Listings Auctions, Estate & Garage Sales Autos Pets Real Estate Service Providers Place a Classified Ad Jobs Career Advice Join Our Team Post A Job Jobs Customer Service Subscribe Manage Your Subscription Subscriber Services RTD 101 Contact Us About Us Close Notch’s executive team includes co-founders Paul Hurlocker (from left) and David Der, Matt Der and Mike Upchurch.
Local tech firm pursues niche business in machine learning
BY JOHN REID BLACKWELL
Richmond Times-Dispatch … Notch’s executive team includes co-founders Paul Hurlocker (from left) and David Der, Matt Der and Mike Upchurch. By JOHN REID BLACKWELL • Richmond Times-Dispatch Concepts like “machine learning” and “artificial intelligence” might conjure up images from science fiction tales about self-aware robots. The team of tech gurus at Notch, a small Richmond company that specializes in machine learning, have heard all that. One manager’s daughter has even joked with her friends about dad working for a robot company. What Notch really helps its clients do is less fantastic, but still has great potential to revolutionize how businesses use the vast amounts of data generated in the digital economy. “We are a very niche company, focused on some emerging areas,” said Paul Hurlocker, Notch’s CEO who co-founded the company in 2014 with David Der. “When we started the company, we saw an opportunity.” Machine learning — which fits into the broader category of artificial intelligence — is now figuring into technologies such as autonomous vehicles and voice and face recognition. It’s one of the tools behind how companies such as Amazon and Netflix give customers automated product recommendations. As a consulting company, Notch is trying to bring the benefits of machine learning to more businesses and organizations. “Leading-edge tech companies like the Facebooks and Googles and Netflixes of the world operate on their data in a very different way than most companies do,” Hurlocker said. “They are also able to leverage machine learning to do things that other companies can’t do.” “We think that is the future, and the companies we work with want to move into that future,” he said. From its office in Richmond’s Shockoe Bottom, the 16-employee company works for clients ranging from small startups to Fortune 500 companies, in industries including pharmaceuticals, health care, retail sales, finance and publishing. Notch does not disclose its financial results, but its managers say revenue tripled last year. *** “Notch is a small but fierce data company,” said Demeria, adding that it has “some of the most knowledgeable data scientists and software engineers in the business.” “Their presence in Richmond elevates our overall profile as a destination for machine learning and data strategy, as a number of their clients are not local,” he said. The Notch team includes veterans of the Richmond-area technology community, along with a staff of young tech specialists, many of them just a few years out of Virginia universities. Hurlocker and Der met while working at Amentra, an information technology consulting firm founded in Richmond that was acquired by Red Hat Inc. in 2008. Der is now Notch’s chief operating officer, and his two brothers, Bryan and Matt, subsequently joined the company. The Der brothers grew up in Chester, with a father who works in computer science. “We had it around the house growing up and, while in school, we all found we had a natural aptitude for mathematics,” David Der said. Bryan Der works as a data scientist for the company. Matt Der earned a doctorate in computer science, specializing in machine learning, from the University of California at San Diego. He is Notch’s chief technology officer and, thanks to his doctorate, he is the one who gives the company its “street cred” in machine learning, Hurlocker said. A recent addition to the management team is Mike Upchurch, as chief strategy officer. Upchurch was the co-founder of Fuzzy Logix, an in-database analytics company, and he previously worked in investment, commercial and retail banking. The managers of Notch believe it is the only company in the Richmond region offering the services it does, and one of the few in the country. “What makes us unique is we thrive at the intersection of machine learning and data engineering,” Matt Der said. Thanks to the internet and smartphones, more data are being collected now than ever before, and Notch’s data engineering service helps clients organize, move and store the data they receive. The data engineering helps position clients for Notch’s second service, which is machine learning. *** Upchurch describes it as essentially using machines to crunch enormous amounts of data beyond the ability of any human and to look for patterns. “The machine automatically learns patterns from data,” Matt Der said. “I equate it with predictive analytics,” rather than just descriptive analytics, which involves analyzing historical data to determine what happened, he said. “A lot of companies are used to doing descriptive analytics,” he said. “That is hindsight, but you can answer even more important questions if you progress from descriptive to predictive. Instead of asking what happened, you ask what will happen? If you can predict the future, you can make better decisions today.” Predictive analytics could be used to improve outcomes in many areas, from preventing fraud in financial services to earlier predictions of who is most likely to get a chronic disease among patient populations. Machine learning tools could even be used to help identify weaknesses in the culture of an organization before it becomes a problem. One of the local companies Notch has been working with is TMI Consulting, which helps organizations improve their workplace diversity and inclusiveness. Notch has been assisting TMI in developing a machine learning system that can aid in the assessment and analysis of such things as employee engagement, and identifying the likelihood of such problems as racial and gender bias. Tiffany Jana, TMI Consulting’s president and CEO, said the firm has been working with various experts for about three years on the system, which she hopes to offer to clients starting next year. Notch has been developing the machine learning tools for about a year. “I am used to people being a little bit confused and incredulous,” about the whole idea, Jana said, but Notch has done work to make it possible. “They have made what we brought to them 100 times better,” she said. “This machine learning is their world. They are not afraid of thinking outside the box at all.” *** “In reality, we are still in the early days of corporate adoption,” he said, which means there is lots of room for a company like Notch to grow. The company has bootstrapped itself so far, not taking any outside investors or debt, Hurlocker said. The majority of the company’s clients are not in Richmond. “We are doing a lot of West Coast work,” Hurlocker said. “We have clients in Chicago, Los Angeles, San Diego and Houston. Northern Virginia is a growth area for us, and Norfolk.” “We do have some clients in Richmond, but they tend to be startups,” Hurlocker said. “We are passionate about working with them. We are committed to trying to help the Richmond startup community.” A lot of the software tools the company uses were developed by West Coast tech companies or nonprofit software developers. “They have open-sourced these things, and we have developed expertise in those areas,” Hurlocker said. Notch has remained based in Richmond because its managers have close family and professional connections in the region, but also because the region’s technology economy has been blooming. “It is also a great city to start a business,” Hurlocker said. “There is talent, and it is affordable. There are some good anchor companies in town.” “We think Richmond is on a roll, in general,” he said. “We hope we are a part of that.” jblackwell@timesdispatch.com Close
Whenever John Reid Blackwell posts new content, you'll get an email delivered to your inbox with a link.
Email notifications are only sent once a day, and only if there are new matching items. Close Get RTD Business email updates every morning Get RTD Business email updates every morning Email: First: Last: Zip:
Sep 19 Sep 19 Sep 20 Sep 20 Sep 21 Sep 21 Sep 22 sponsored sponsored sponsored News Business Entertainment Events Calendar Food & Drink Sports Outdoors RTD 101 All Sections Today's Print Ads Classifieds Automotive Real Estate Jobs Find Local Advertise with the Richmond Times-Dispatch Contact Us Business Directory Buy Photos Email Newsletters Subscription Services Shop Our Products Want to use our content? Work With Us About Us Sign Up Manage Subscription E-Edition Club RTD Change Password Report an Issue