How machine learning could help to improve climate forecasts : Nature News & Comment
nature.com Sitemap Register Login Nature International weekly journal of science Home Home News & Comment News & Comment Research Research Careers & Jobs Careers & Jobs Current Issue Current Issue Archive Archive Audio & Video Audio & Video For Authors For Authors Archive Volume 548 Issue 7668 News Article Article Nature | News Sharing How machine learning could help to improve climate forecasts Mixing artificial intelligence with climate science helps researchers to identify previously unknown atmospheric processes and rank climate models. Nicola Jones Article tools Greg Kendall-Ball Many of the latest climate models seek to increase the detail in simulations of cloud structure.   “Climate is now a data problem,” says Claire Monteleoni, a computer scientist at George Washington University in Washington DC who has helped to pioneer the marriage of machine-learning techniques with climate science. In machine learning, AI systems improve in performance as the amount of data that they analyse grows. This approach is a natural fit for climate science: a single run of a high-resolution climate model can produce a petabyte of data, and the archive of climate data maintained by the UK Met Office, the national weather service, now holds about 45 petabytes of information — and adds 0.085 petabytes a day.   Researchers hoping to wrangle all these data will meet next month in Boulder, Colorado, to assess the state of science in the field known as climate informatics. Work in this area has grown rapidly. In the past several years, researchers have used AI systems to help them to rank climate models, spot cyclones and other extreme weather events — in both real and modelled climate data — and identify new climate patterns. “The pace seems to be picking up,” says Monteleoni. Researchers hoping to wrangle all these data will meet next month in Boulder, Colorado, to assess the state of science in the field known as climate informatics. Work in this area has grown rapidly. In the past several years, researchers have used AI systems to help them to rank climate models, spot cyclones and other extreme weather events — in both real and modelled climate data — and identify new climate patterns. “The pace seems to be picking up,” says Monteleoni.   “Climate is now a data problem.” And Monteleoni has developed machine-learning algorithms to create weighted averages of the roughly 30 climate models used by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. By learning the models’ strengths and weaknesses, such algorithms generate better results than conventional approaches that treat all models equally, Monteleoni says. The climate community is starting to adopt AI algorithms that weight climate models as a way to help improve forecasts. And Monteleoni has developed machine-learning algorithms to create weighted averages of the roughly 30 climate models used by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. By learning the models’ strengths and weaknesses, such algorithms generate better results than conventional approaches that treat all models equally, Monteleoni says. The climate community is starting to adopt AI algorithms that weight climate models as a way to help improve forecasts. Machine mysteries Machine mysteries Because deep-learning systems develop their own rules, researchers often can’t say how or why these algorithms arrive at a given result. That makes some people uneasy about relying on these ‘black boxes’ to forecast imminent weather emergencies such as floods. “I’m reluctant to use [AI] as an answer machine,” says William Drew Collins, a climate modeller at the LBNL. “If I can’t explain what the machine is doing, then there’s a problem.”   Instead, Collins says that AI algorithms are best suited to help test the next generation of climate models. These models aim to incorporate complex climate phenomena such as the fine structures of clouds, atmospheric rivers and ocean eddies. “We need a benchmark of the level of detail that these models should be aiming for,” Collins says. “We need a guide star. Machine learning is well suited for that.”     Most climatologists are still using conventional methods to analyse their data — but that is changing. “If you go to the major modelling centres and ask them how they work, the answer won’t be machine learning,” says Collins. “But it will get there.” Most climatologists are still using conventional methods to analyse their data — but that is changing. “If you go to the major modelling centres and ask them how they work, the answer won’t be machine learning,” says Collins. “But it will get there.” , References Liu, Y. Liu, Y. 2016 Liess, S. Liess, S. J. Clim. 27 8466 8486 2014 McGovern, A. McGovern, A. Bull. Am. Meteorol. Soc. 2017 Related stories and links From nature.com The ‘time machine’ reconstructing ancient Venice’s social networks 14 June 2017 14 June 2017 Machine learning predicts the look of stem cells 05 April 2017 05 April 2017 Machine-learning algorithm quantifies gender bias in astronomy 04 November 2016 04 November 2016 Can we open the black box of AI? 05 October 2016 05 October 2016 Can artificial intelligence create the next wonder material? 04 May 2016 04 May 2016 Computer science: The learning machines 08 January 2014 08 January 2014 Author information Author details Nicola Jones NPG journals PubMed Google Scholar 1 comment Neil MCNAUGHTON • Social Media Box - AML E-alert RSS Facebook Germany focus With a national election this month, Germany proves that foresight and stability can power research. Top Content - Article Page Recent Recent Cassini crashes into Saturn — but could still deliver big discoveries Nature 14 September 2017 Scientists' sexual-harassment case sparks protests at University of Rochester Nature 14 September 2017 Seismologists stumped by mystery shock after North Korean nuclear test Nature 14 September 2017 Read Read The secret to Germany’s scientific excellence Nature 06 Sep 2017 Massive genetic study shows how humans are evolving Nature 06 Sep 2017 Science must acknowledge its past mistakes and crimes Nature 04 Sep 2017 Commented Commented Removing statues of historical figures risks whitewashing history Nature 04 Sep 2017 11 comments Rumours swell over new kind of gravitational-wave sighting Nature 24 Aug 2017 7 comments Keep on marching for science education Nature 29 Aug 2017 5 comments Your browser does not support iframes. Face of the genome Reviewers and a co-author of a paper by genomics entrepreneur Craig Venter claim that it misrepresents the risks of public access to genome data. Mexico quake US Geological Survey says tremor was within the Cocos Plate, not at the plate boundary. Genome evolution Analysis of 215,000 people's DNA suggests variants that shorten life are being selected against. Bat nav Smooth, vertical structures such as steel and glass buildings appear invisible to bats' echolocation system. Nature Podcast Protecting red haired people from cancer, machine learning and gravitational distortions, and peeking inside predatory journals. nature
jobs Assistant, Associate or Full Professor University of Michigan Multiple Postdoctoral Fellowships in Cardiac Signal Processing and Instrumentation : Boston, MA, United States Massachusetts General Hospital Associate Editor / Senior Editor roles, Nature Research - Talent Pool 2017 Springer Nature Professor and Faculty Positions at the Academy of Medical Sciences (AMS), Zhengzhou University The Academy of Medical Sciences of Zhengzhou University Postdocs, Key Lab for Neuroinformation, University of Electronic Sciences and Technology of China University of Electronic Science and Technology of China (UESTC) Post a Job More Science Jobs Nature : : About us Contact us Accessibility statement Help Privacy policy Use of cookies Legal notice Terms
Nature Asia Nature Education RSS web feeds About the Editors