Machine Learning - IBM Analytics
Machine Learning Infuse continuous intelligence into your enterprise using machine learning.
Dramatically improve the productivity of your data science team. Watch the video
Read the latest analyst report.
Productivity Make your experienced and novice data scientists more productive. Trust Confidently deploy insights knowing they were generated from the most current data and trends. Freedom Choose the right language and machine learning framework for your business. Don’t get locked into only one. Featured solutions Featured solutions Quickly create, deploy and manage high quality self-learning behavioral models to extract hidden value from enterprise data – securely, in place and in real time. IBM Machine Learning for z/OS An on-premise machine learning solution that extracts hidden value from enterprise data. You can quickly ingest and transform data to create, deploy and manage high quality self-learning behavioral models using IBM z Systems data. Watch the video IBM Watson Machine Learning Service IBM Watson Machine Learning is built on IBM's proven analytics platform, making it easy for developers and data scientists to make smarter decisions, solve tough problems, and improve user outcomes. IBM Data Science Experience Now you can create value faster using the best of open source and IBM together. Built for data scientists by data scientists, the IBM Data Science Experience is a cloud-based, social workspace that helps data professionals consolidate create and collaborate across multiple open source tools such as R and Python. Related products SPSS Modeler Build accurate predictive models quickly and deliver predictive intelligence to your enterprise applications. SPSS Statistics This powerful tool provides a range of techniques, including ad-hoc analysis, hypothesis testing and reporting, to make it easier to access and manage data, select and perform analyses, and share your results. Decision Optimization Prescriptive analytics helps organizations make better decisions by optimizing trade-offs between business goals, rules, and constraints on available resources. Introducing the Data Science Experience
Resources
This white paper covers how Apache Spark is broadening access to machine learning, various machine learning use cases and why Apache Spark is the ideal platform for machine learning This ebook describes the components and processes that comprise this foundational methodology for data science and discusses some of the integral tools and techniques being used by today’s data engineers to collect, process, analyze and deploy data. This data science visualization captures the various roles, skills and industries that are most prevalent in the practice of data science. It is meant to illustrate the breadth and depth of the complex relationships and patterns that emerged from our research. The U.S.A. Cycling Women’s team employed cloud, mobile, and analytic technologies to increase performance in Team Pursuit, a four-kilometer cycling event. View case study High-demand public Wi-Fi provider, SolutionInc, analyzed its massive Wi-Fi data log covering a 2-year period using Spark to generate deeper and more precise business insights. View case study Researchers at the SETI (Search for Extraterrestrial Intelligence) Institute analyzed signal data from the Allen Telescope Array using limited algorithms to detect real-time signal patterns. View case study
Get connected