Machine Learning Offers a Path to Deeper Insight
USA (English)
Sign In
Recent Searches Remember me Safari Chrome IE Firefox Machine Learning Offers a Path to Deeper Insight Your Path to Deeper Insight Machine learning is becoming faster and more accessible. Our customers are using massive data sets to build smarter cities, power intelligent cars, and deliver personalized medicine…and that is just the beginning. As a Scientific Community, We Are Just Beginning to Understand the Potential of Machine Learning Data scientists, developers, and researchers are using machine learning to gain insights previously out of reach. Programs that learn from experience are helping them discover how the human genome works, understand consumer behavior to a degree never before possible, and build systems for purchase recommendations, image recognition, and fraud prevention, among other uses. Now you can scale your machine learning and deep learning applications quickly – and gain insights more efficiently – with your existing hardware infrastructure. Popular open frameworks newly optimized for Intel, together with our advanced math libraries, make Intel® Architecture-based platforms a smart choice for these projects. Learn more about machine learning › The Race for Faster Machine Learning Big speed jumps like those Intel is seeing in performance on specific algorithms are rarely possible in the traditional high-performance computing world, where problems are well-defined and optimization work has already been happening for many years. Machine learning algorithms still have room for improvement. Andrey Nikolaev, a software architect on the team in Russia, says that at given times, it appears that he and his colleagues have optimized an algorithm to the maximum extent possible. “Then tomorrow we will understand—or someone will come to us and show us—how we can make it faster,” he says. “Optimization is something you can do forever.” Explore more › Open-Source Resources for Developers The popular open-source development framework for image recognition is now optimized for Intel® Architecture. Learn how to install Caffe* Get the framework The Python library designed to help write deep learning models is now optimized for Intel® Architecture. Getting started with Theano* Visit the library Apache Spark* MLlib, the open-source data processing framework’s machine learning library, now includes Intel® Architecture support. Build faster applications Get the library Intel’s open-source Trusted Analytics Platform provides prebuilt machine learning functions, making it easier to build public and private cloud analytics apps. Watch the webinar Learn more Software Developer Resources from Intel Tools, techniques, and frameworks that boost machine learning performance on Intel® Architecture. Visit the Intel® Developer Zone A high-performance library with assets to help accelerate math processing routines and increase application performance. Get the library Learn more about Intel® MKL Highly optimized library that helps speed big data analytics by providing algorithmic building blocks for all data analysis stages and for offline, streaming, and distributed analytics usages. Learn more about Intel® DAAL Open-source options for Intel® DAAL Technical resources and free training that help developers deliver multi-level parallel performance that scales. Access Intel® Modern Code Machine Learning Products from Intel High throughput scoring on existing server class infrastructure. Learn more Achieve shorter time to train deep neural networks on robust, scalable infrastructure. Learn more Resources for Researchers Showcases the collaboration between Intel and university researchers. Visit the showcase Select software development products and user forum support for qualified students, educators, academic researchers, and open-source contributors. Get the free tools See the latest developments in efficient computing, immersive experiences, transportation, and other leading research areas. Learn more about Intel Labs Intel IT Peer Network Learn how Intel is moving machine learning from an academic pursuit to a driver of innovation. Read more As data volumes grow, so does the need for scalable systems that use machine learning to train complex models. Read more Discover how machine learning and advanced analytics can increase your competitive advantage. Read more At Intel, we are excited about the potential of AI to transform our world in amazing new ways. Read more
© Intel Corporation